  KITT-2 assumes that the primary events have exponentially distributed
times to failure and repair (if repairability is applicable). The param-
eters in these distributions (failure and repair rates) can be changed at
times specified by the user. Primary events can also be assigned probabili-
ties of being failed initially if the assumption is not made that they are
working at time zero. Inhibit conditions have a constant probability.

  Required input consists of control information, primary-event infor-
mation (failure rates, repair times, and optional names), time points at
which the characteristics are calculated, and the list of minimal cut sets.
The control parameters control the bracketing options and allow multiple-
parameter runs to be performed. Each parameter run uses the same minimal
sets, but if one or more of the primary-event failure rates or repair times
are changed, the reliability characteristics are recalculated. The output
from KITT-1 and KITT-2 consists of unavailability, unreliability, and the
expected number of occurrences for primary events, minimal cut sets, and the
top event; failure rates for minimal cut sets and the top event; and impor-
tance for primary events and minimal cut sets.

  KITT-1 and KITT-2 are written in Fortran IV for the IBM 360/370 and
the CDC 7600 computers. Some input-error checking is available. The cut
sets can be input directly from PREP or MOCUS. However, for large fault
trees the use of the KITT codes would be very limited. No external routine
is required for running these codes.

RALLY

  The code package RALLY, developed by the Gesellschaft fuer Reaktor-
sicherheit (1978), is capable of evaluating fault trees with up to 1500
primary events and 2000 gates, including AND, OR, NOT, and K-of-N gates.

  RALLY consists of the codes TREBIL, TIMBER, CRESSEX, FESIVAR, CRESSC,
CRESSCN, SLAP-MP, KARI, and STREUSL. TREBIL was based on the PREP pre-
processor for fault-tree synthesis, optimization, and data acquisition for
the other programs of the RALLY package. TIMBER plots the fault tree.
CRESSEX calculates the average unavailability and failure frequency by means
of Monte Carlo simulation. FESIVAR is similar to CRESSEX except that it is
capable of performing importance calculations. Minimal cut sets are cal-
culated by either a simulation method with CRESSC (or CRESSCN if the fault
tree contains NOT gates) or an analytical method with the programs SLAP-MP
and KARI. STREUSL performs a time-dependent fault-tree quantification based
on the minimal cut sets of the tree. The average unavailability and failure
rate are calculated by the AVAGS code, which is used in conjunction with
STREUSL. For uncertainty calculations the following distributions are
handled by AVAGS: normal, lognormal, Johnson-SL, extreme value 1, Weibull,
gamma, and exponential. RALLY was used in the German Risk Study and is
written in Fortran IV for the IBM 360/370.

RAS

  RAS (Reliability Analysis System) is an integrated package of computer
codes for the quantification of fault trees (Rasmuson et al., 1977). It is
based on MOCUS, POCUS, KITT-1, SRTPAN, and COMCAN. The package can be used
for an entire system analysis with up to five system phases, or it can be


6-49
