information from the safety analysis report is used, its conservative bias
must be taken into account. It is important to apply the most realistic
information available in terms of the pressure, temperature, flow rates,
and timing characteristics associated with systems designed to respond to
accident-initiating events. Such information can be derived from analyses
of transients by the utility or vendor-supplied thermal-hydraulics calcula-
tions that can be justified and referenced.

It should be noted that in some PRAs a formally documented evaluation
of plant responses was omitted, and system event trees were developed
directly from the information described in the preceding sections. This
usually can be done only by analysts who are very familiar with plant design
and responses to accident-initiating events. Such engineering judgment is
very valuable to the risk-assessment process, but a typical PRA would bene-
fit from a formally documented approach, as described in the sections that
follow.

3.4.3.1 Analysis of Function Event Trees

The use of function event trees to evaluate plant responses requires
the development of an event tree that orders and depicts safety functions
according to the mitigating requirements of each group of initiating
events. The headings of the function event tree are statements of safety
functions that can be translated in terms of the systems performing each
function. Success criteria are then defined for each of these systems.
This stepwise process provides the information needed for preparing the more
detailed system event trees that delineate the system accident sequences.

Function event trees are developed for each group of initiators because
each group generates a distinctly different plant response. The function
event tree is not an end product; it is an intermediate step that provides a
baseline of information and permits a stepwise approach to sorting out the
complex relationships between potential initiating events and the response
of mitigating features. It is the initial step in structuring plant respon-
ses to accident conditions in a temporal format. The top events of function
event trees are eventually decomposed into statements of system operation or
unavailability that can be quantitatively measured.

In constructing the event tree, the analyst considers the functions re-
quired to prevent core damage, potential consequences, and the relationships
between safety functions. For example, if the RCS inventory is not main-
tained, then RCS heat removal cannot be accomplished. This could result in
eliminating the choice for RCS heat-removal sequences where the RCS inven-
tory is not successfully maintained.

Figure 3-6 shows a typical function event tree for a large LOCA. The
functions considered in developing this event tree are as follows:

1. Reactor subcritical (RS): termination of the fission process.

2. Containment overpressure (COI): initial suppression of blowdown by
   steam condensation only.
3-24
