3. Evidence that the results, at least when calculated for a flat ter-
   rain, do not differ sufficiently from those of simpler models to
   make their use worthwhile in consequence analyses that require
   repeated use of the meteorological model.

Hitherto, most authors of consequence codes have found these arguments com-
pelling, and it will be assumed that most readers of this report have at
their disposal some version of the basic Gaussian plume model, which is de-
scribed in Section 9.3. There is no implication, however, that more compli-
cated models should not be used if the reader has sufficient funds and en-
ergy. These are the models of the future, and there are already consequence
codes that are beginning to take advantage of numerical models; examples are
ARANO (Northlund et al., 1979) and CRACIT (Commonwealth Edison Company,
1981; Woodard and Potter, 1979).

D1.2 ACCURACY OF THE GAUSSIAN MODEL

No definitive statement of the accuracy of the Gaussian model is appli-
cable to all circumstances. The American Meteorological Society (1977) has
published a brief note on the "Accuracy of Dispersion Models." The question
has also been discussed by Clarke et al. (1979). The text that follows
addresses three questions:

1. Given the weather conditions, what accuracy can be expected from
   the Gaussian model?

2. Up to what height is the Gaussian model valid?

3. What sort of accuracy can be expected for quantities that are aver-
   aged or cumulated over many uses of the Gaussian model in different
   weather conditions?

D1.2.1 Gaussian Model in Given Weather Conditions

The discussion that follows relies heavily on the 1977 position paper
of the American Meteorological Society. Models used for calculating the
near-field (distances of less than 1 km) dispersion of inert pollutants for
short averaging times (minutes to hours) have been developed with the aid of
various definitive sets of dispersion experiments carried out during the
1950s and 1960s under idealized conditions of uniform terrain, steady
weather conditions, and known source terms measured by research-grade in-
struments. These experiments played an important role in the development of
the Pasquill-Gifford dispersion curves. In these ideal circumstances, if
the user estimates a certain concentration by these modeling techniques, the
observed maximum downwind concentration value should be expected to be
within 10 to 20 percent of the calculated value for a surface-level source
and within 20 to 40 percent for an elevated source, such as a tall stack.

When dispersion modeling is applied in circumstances that are differ-
ent from the carefully controlled, idealized situation described above
D-3
