used for both the NRC and the Sandia liquid-pathway studies. These models
are based on the solution of the advection-diffusion equation with the
assumption that tidally induced advection can be sufficiently described by
longitudinal dispersion. Regulatory Guide 1.113 (USNRC, 1977) contains
additional solutions to the advection-diffusion equation.

River models, such as that by White and Gloyna (1969), may also be ap-
plicable for estuaries. In these models, advective transport is considered
to be a result of spatially averaged stream velocity. The advective effects
of the estuarine tidal cycle are accounted for in the diffusion term. An
alternative to this approach is a model that lumps the tidal hydraulics into
the advective transport term. Such a model, which in effect is a transient
estuary model applicable to instantaneous or accidental releases, was de-
veloped as part of the radionuclide studies for the Columbia River estuary
(Daniels et al., 1970).

Coastal Systems and Great Lakes

The effect of sediment transport on radionuclide migration will gener-
ally be less important in the sea than in rivers or estuaries. Most radio-
nuclides would be expected to remain in the dissolved phase. Near the
shore, coastal dispersion is complex and may require more complicated
models. Coastal currents, irregular bathymetry, and tidal oscillation com-
plicate the flow field and invalidate simple models that are applicable fur-
ther off the shore. In the open sea, the phenomenological patch-spreading
model based on the dispersion of tracers has been widely used and appears to
be adequate for instantaneous releases. Some numerical models (see, for ex-
ample, Eraslan, 1975) are useful close to shore. Semianalytical models like
the MIT transit-plume model (Adams et al., 1975) are appropriate if the
receiving-water geometry is sufficiently open. Coastal models for the Great
Lakes are similar in many respects to oceanic models, especially in the
nearshore zone and for the spreading of instantaneously released patches.
Contamination can be spread throughout the entire lake on the order of
weeks. Because Great Lakes flushing times are on the order of years,
mixed-tank models may be useful for time scales longer than a month. Al-
though the time scale for sedimentation is long, sedimentation in lakes is
recognized as an important mechanism for the removal of some elements, such
as cesium. Stratification can limit the depth of effective mixing in both
oceanic and Great Lakes models (Gloyna, 1977). Seasonal turnovers, up-
welling, and other stratification phenomena can complicate the analysis.

Critical parameters for modeling coastal systems include (1) coastal
current patterns with regard to winds and tides, (2) turbulent-transport
coefficients, (3) diffusion-transport coefficients, and (4) sediment-trans-
port coefficients. Parameters important for Great Lakes include (1) current
fields, (2) turbulent-transport coefficients, (3) diffusion-transport coef-
ficients, and (4) sediment-transport coefficients.

Two-dimensional solutions of the advection-diffusion equation were
used to approximate the nearshore transport of radionuclides for the NRC
and the Sandia liquid-pathway studies. Analytical solutions were obtained
by assuming that the nearshore region has a constant depth d, a straight
shoreline, and a constant alongshore water velocity. Both studies also
F-11
