   Of course, in the Bayesian, or subjectivist, framework it is sufficient 
to give a probability distribution on the parameter value in order to ex-
press confidence. This has been a popular way of representing uncertainty 
since the Reactor Safety Study (USNRC, 1975).  The Zion study used this 
approach throughout. The use of distributions on input and output param-
eters is appealing because of the ease with which they can be manipulated. 
However, the provision of distributions for all parameters is not an easy 
task.

12.4.2 INPUT UNCERTAINTIES

12.4.2.1 Quantifiability

     Each separate part of the PRA has its own particular input uncertain-
ties. These may be as follows:

     1. Uncertainties in the values of input parameters unique to that part  
        of the PRA. An example is the deposition velocity in the conse-
        quence model.

     2. Uncertainties in inputs that are outputs from another part of the    
        PRA. An example is the frequency of an accident sequence and its 
        input to the consequence model for risk evaluation.

     3. Uncertainties due to modeling or completeness issues.

Whether these uncertainties are regarded as quantifiable depends on the 
level of analysis, and the degree of quantifiability that is necessary de-
pends on the method of propagation. For example, if the overall uncertain-
ties were to be treated only as bounds with no probability assignment, then 
it might be felt that it would be adequate to provide bounds on the input 
variables, and thus all parameter uncertainties should be quantifiable in 
the sense of constructing bounds. Some effort involving sensitivity anal-
yses would be needed in defining bounds for models, and completeness uncer-
tainties would need special treatment. Such an approach to uncertainty anal-
ysis would not, however, provide sufficient detail for some applications of 
PRA.

     Uncertainties on input parameters, whether they are parameters of the 
model or inputs from another part of the PRA, may be quantifiable by one of 
the measures described in the preceding section. However, uncertainty in a 
parameter that is the output of another analysis is only as quantifiable as 
the methods of that analysis allow.

     The treatment of modeling uncertainties is really part of the propaga-
tion task. The only input would be to decide on some weighting to be ap-
plied to different models that might be used. Since a model is an expres-
sion of the analyst's understanding of the phenomena being modeled, it is 
possible to interpret the weighting in a Bayesian sense as a degree of 
belief in the particular model.
12-16
