55


E~Q6 (3) is a reaction-path code, which calculates models of changes in
aqueous systems as they proceed toward a state of overall chemical
equilibrium. These models are divisible into three types: 1) "instant"
equilibration of a system not at equilibrium, such as a water that is
supersaturated with respect to several solids, 2) reaction-path calcula-
tions using arbitrary kinetics to describe mass transfer for reactions
that do not follow instantaneous equilibrium (these calculations essen-
tially represent titrations), and 3) reaction-path calculations using
actual kinetic rate laws. EQ6 runs are initialized by entering a
description of the starting aqueous fluid (from EQ3NR) and defining the
constraints for the reaction path (i.e., identifying the irreversibly
reacting materials and specifying the controls on their rate of
reaction; temperature/pressure changes may also be included).

At the present time, EQ6 models correspond to two physical scenarios: 1)
a closed system, which best approximates a rocking autoclave, and 2) a
flow-through open system, which follows the progress of a single packet
of water as it traverses a reacting medium (this is a pseudo-one-
dimensional model). There are tentative plans to add a third model,
which would deal with a flow-through open system approximating a
leaching cell (also pseudo-one-dimensional). A full one-dimensional
model, in which the code would keep track of reaction in a series of
boxes, appears feasible, but is not currently planned for EQ3/6
development.

			RECENT IMPROVEMENTS

With the adoption of EQ3/6 by the NNWSI and ONWI, development has
accelerated in the period FY83-84, and several major steps have been
made to improve the adequacy of the code package for use by the waste
programs. One major step forward is that a series of detailed user's
guides (2-5) has been produced. This documentation has been produced
specifically to satisfy NRC software requirements (6).

EQ3/6 prior to FY83 had no capability for modeling brines, because the
approximations for calculating the thermodynamic activity of water and
the activity coefficients of the solute species w~re restricted to low
ionic strengths (~~1.0 molal). Under ONWI sponsorship, we have added
an option (4,7) to use Pitzer's equations (8-11) for such calculations.
These equations, based on a semi-empirical approach using virial coeffi-
cients, represent a proven methodology for modeling the thermodynamics
of brines. Fig. 1 shows an example of this option, in which Pitzer's
equations have been used to calculate the solubility of gypsum as a
function of NaCl concentration in the system CaSO4-NaCl-H2O at 25~C.

At present, EQ3/6 contains two alternate Pitzer coefficient data bases.
The first, drawn largely from sources other than solublity data (largely
Ref. 10), contains sufficient species to account for acid-base equilib-
ria, but does not include any ion-pairs as component species. The
second is taken from a source (11) which has been partially optimized to
