4.1
4.0 WASTE TREATMENT TECHNOLOGY

This section describes conceptual processes and facilities for treating gaseous and
various transuranium (TRU) wastes produced during the postfission portion of the LWR fuel
cycle. The goal of the treatment process for TRU wastes and for long-lived radionuclides
removed from the gaseous waste streams is to convert these wastes to stable products suitable
for placement in geologic isolation repositories. The treatment concepts are based on
available technology. They do not necessarily represent an optimum design but are represen-
tative of what could be achieved with current technology. In actual applications it is 
reasonable to expect that there could be some improvement over these concepts that might be
reflected in either lower costs or lower environmental impacts or both. These conceptual
descriptions do provide a reasonable basis for cost analysis and for development of estimates
of environmental impacts.

The waste treatment technologies considered here include:

Section 4.1  High Level Waste Solidification
Section 4.2  Packaging of Fuel Residue
Section 4.3  Failed Equipment and Noncombustible Waste Treatment
Section 4.4  General Trash and Combustible Waste Treatment
Section 4.5  Degraded Solvent Treatment
Section 4.6  Dilute Aqueous Waste Pretreatment
Section 4.7  Immobilization of Wet and Solid Wastes
Section 4.8  Off-gas Particle Removal Systems
Section 4.9  Fuel Reprocessing Plant Dissolver Off-gas Treatment
Section 4.10 Process Off-gas Treatment
Section 4.11 Fuel Reprocessing Plant Atmospheric Protection System

Treatment alternatives considered in this document have been selected primarily on the
basis of available technology as identified in the ERDA report, Alternatives for Managing
Wastes from Reactors and Post-fission Operations in the LWR Fuel Cycle. Where possible at
least two available technology alternative concepts are described for treatment of each waste
type. However, in two cases, failed equipment and noncombustible waste treatment (Section 4.3)
and degraded solvent treatment (Section 4.5), only one concept is described since there are no
significant alternative concepts available. In two cases, Packaging of Fuel Residues 
(Section 4.2) and the Atmospheric Protection System (Section 4.11), three alternatives are
described.

In two sections, Section 4.6 and 4.8, the descriptions are limited to generic discussions
of facilities; no specific facilities are described. The processes presented in Section 4.6
for dilute aqueous waste pretreatment are often more closely related to the main recycle pro-
cess flowsheet than to treated waste requirements. The concentrated waste streams produced
by these processes are subject to further treatment described in other sections. Section 4.8
discusses off-gas particle removal through the application of high-efficiency air filtration
systems. Such systems are used throughout a reprocessing or mixed oxide fuel fabrication
plant and description of specific individual facilities is inappropriate here. Treatment
