5.5.4


  The following assumptions were made in the design of the reference facility:

~ The plutonium product used in this analysis will contain high-exposure plutonium.
  The reference composition is shown in Table 3.3.16.

~ All required functions, such as cooling, ventilation, and power, will be ensured
  by back-up systems to maintain acceptable operating conditions at all times.

~ The design of the three IPSFs is based on safety considerations, ease of storage,
  and ease of retrieval when required.

~ Plutonium will be contained by multiple barriers that are designed for minimum
  dependence on people and devices.

~ The storage container will be the pressure vessel of the AGNS PPP-1 shipping con-
  tainer. Use of a shipping container component eliminates the need for a separate
  storage container and simplifies storage facility operations.

~ The reference design will be a vault type of storage similar in design to the
  plutonium oxide storage for the BPPF.

~ IPSF design will be shown to be adequate from a safety standpoint. Optimization
  of parameters such as container storage spacing, cooling annulus spacing, and
  radiation shielding thickness are desirable from a cost standpoint but will not
  be considered in this analysis.

~ The range of all safety-related instrumentation will be wide enough to include system
  safety setpoints (error conditions) as well as normal operating ranges.

~ The facility shall have the necessary people and equipment to defend against a
  terrorist attack.

  5.5.1.3 Operation of the Interim Plutonium Oxide Storage Facility

  An operations flow diagram is shown in Figure 5.5.1. Upon arrival at the IPSF, the
PPP-1 shipping container (pressure vessel and overpack) is removed from the carrier truck by an
electric fork-lift truck. The shipping container is brought into the IPSF via the transfer air
lock and placed in the entrance chamber to the inspection and transfer cell. Operating person-
nel remove the overpack lid, and the container is lifted to the entrance port. A power manipu-
lator, remotely controlled from outside the cell, removes the entrance port plug and lifts
the PPP-1 pressure vessel into the inspection and transfer cell. The pressure vessel is then
placed in the maintenance rack for inspection. This same rack is used for all pressure vessel
maintenance (inspections, repairs, venting, etc.).

  The PPP-1 pressure vessel (now the IPSF storage container) is inspected and decontaminated
as necessary. The power manipulator is then used to remove the exit port plug and transfer
the container to the shielded transfer cask positioned below the exit port. Another electric
fork-lift truck moves the container in the transfer cask to the cask transfer gallery.
