5.7.60
~ Canisters containing failed fuel are placed in a second container called an overpack.    
~ No more than 0.2% of the fuel assemblies are expected to contain failed fuel rods.   How-
  ever the facility is designed for a 2% failure rate.    
~ Steel overpacks and canisters are fabricated offsite.    
~ The facility has air locks and a controlled air leakage into the facility; effluent air 
  is filtered.    
~ Air conditioning, other than heating in the winter, is not required in process
  areas.    
~ The facility has an area for receiving, handling, inspecting, and repairing empty 
  canisters, and for storing a 2-month inventory of empty canisters and overpacks.

Safety.   The primary design considerations of the spent fuel packaging facility are to 
protect the integrity of the fuel cladding and to safely transfer fuel assemblies into indi-
vidual containers, for extended storage or transfer to a geologic repository.   The facility 
will be designed to preclude the following as credible accidents:   
~ criticality   
~ dropping of heavy loads on fuel   
~ multiple massive ruptures of fuel assemblies by missiles   
~ loss of shielding   
~ complete loss of cooling.   

Spent fuel handling structures and systems are designed to prevent excessive release of 
radioactivity while maintaining their functional integrity following any credible natural 
phenomena (earthquake, tornado, hurricane, flood, drought, etc.), any accidents (power loss, 
equipment failure, etc.), or any credibly related combinations of phenomena and accidents.  

Use of Single Assembly Square Canister.   Heat transfer calculations for the 6-1/2 year old 
fuel assemblies indicate that multiassembly packaging of BWR assemblies (four assemblies per 
package) is possible and that multiassembly packaging for PWR assemblies may be possible.  How-
ever, the single-assembly/square canister is used here because it uses an evaluated critically 
safe configuration.  Square canisters also allow placement of more packaged fuel in a shipping 
cask cavity for transportation, which results in significant transportation cost savings when
moving the fuel to terminal storage in a canister.   In an industrial facility, after additional 
analyses have been performed, round canisters and overpacks are an attractive alternative.   
Round canisters, of standard pipe size and structurally stronger, would be somewhat cheaper 
than square canisters.  

5.7.3.3  Spent Fuel Packaging Facility Operations 

The SFPF receives fuel assemblies into its heavily shielded air environment through the 
unpackaged spent fuel storage facility's water-filled transfer canal.   After entry into the
SFPF, the assemblies, which are handled only in a vertical position, are dried and sealed in 
helium-filled canisters.   Packaged assemblies are then temporarily stored for about 2 days
