7.5.48
For the long rooms, extendible conveyors in each room transfer the mined salt to 
roofsuspended main line conveyor systems that transport the salt to an underground bin.   
A reclaim conveyor beneath the storage bins is fed by vibratory feeders that are auto-
matically controlled.   The salt is held in a surge bin before being conveyed to skip 
hoists for removal to the surface.    

In the short room system, the constraints on mine geometry require that a loader and 
truck method that is more flexible be used for the mining operation.   Trucks transport the 
mined salt from the rear of the continuous mining machine to the branch corridor conveyors, 
which are frequently extended so that truck haulage distances are kept as short as 
possible.   The branch corridor conveyors then transfer the salt to the main line conveyor.    

Electrically-operated trucks could be used in the rooms, but the haulage distances 
are fairly long for trailing cables, and trolley wire systems are not practical for 
continuous mining systems.   Therefore, diesel trucks are used for this operation.  Normally, 
two trucks operate behind one mining unit, but often in restricted areas, only one truck 
can operate efficiently.   On very long hauls three or more trucks may be used.   

~ Conventional drilling and blasting techniques are used to mine all corridors, rooms, 
service areas and ventilation corridors for repositories located in shale, basalt and
granite.   A mining cycle consists of drilling the drift face, loading the holes with 
explosives, blasting, and after allowing time for fumes to clear, muck removal.   Drilling 
is performed by jumbos equipped with electric hydraulic drills.   The drilling crew drills 
between 60 and 90 5-cm (2-in.) diameter holes per face, depending on the size of each 
face.   The hole length is 3.3 m (11 ft) which allows the breaking of 3 m (10 ft) of 
ground.   When the drilling of a face is completed, the drill crew moves to a second 
face and commences work while preparations for blasting are being made at the first face.    

At the first face drilled, a blasting crew loads the holes with a round of explosives 
and the round is blasted.   While the fumes clear, the blasting crew moves on to another 
face that already has been drilled.    

After the fumes have cleared, a mucking crew begins removing the blasted rock. The 
mucking crew uses a rubber-tired front-end loader equipped with a 4.6-m3 (6-yd3) rock 
bucket to load the broken rock into 32-MT (35-ton) 17-m3 (22-yd3) dump-trucks and when 
the rooms are being mined, the rock is sent down the branch corridor toward the main 
corridor system.   A grizzly located at the end of the branch corridor (just off to the 
side of the main corridor) uses a hydraulic breaker to reduce the size of the material.   
All the broken rock passing through the grizzly is dropped through a vertical opening 
excavated in the rock.   When mining corridors and ventilation drifts, the broken rock 
is dropped into the nearest chute.    

From the control chute, the broken rock is fed into rail cars and transported to a 
centrally located rock crusher.   The crushed rock (maximum 0.2-m (8-in.) material) is fed 
onto a conveyor located below the crusher discharge.   The conveyor carries the crushed 
rock up a 25% incline slope and discharges it into a storage bin which acts as a surge
