aquitard - a confining bed that retards but does not prevent the flow of water 
     to or from an adjacent aquifer; a leaky confining bed.  It does not 
     readily yield water to wells or springs, but may serve as a storage unit
     for ground water.   

argillaceous - applied to all rocks or substances composed of clay minerals or 
     having a notable proportion of clay in their composition such as shale,
     slate, etc.  

artesian wells - wells tapping ground water confined under hydrostatic 
     pressure.  The water level in an artesian well is above the top of the 
     artesian water body it taps.  If the water level in an artesian well 
     stands above the land surface, the well is a flowing artesian well.   

atomic energy defense activity (or program) - any activity of the Secretary 
     of Energy performed in whole or in part in carrying out any of the 
     following functions: naval reactors development; weapons activities 
     including defense inertial confinement fusion; verification and control 
     technology; defense nuclear materials production; defense nuclear waste 
     and materials by-products management; defense nuclear materials security 
     and safeguards and security investigations; and defense research and 
     development.   

backfilling - placement of originally removed or new materials into excavated 
     areas of a repository, including holes drilled for waste canisters, 
     tunnels, access ways, and shafts.   

barrier - any material or structure that prevents or substantially delays 
     movement of ground water and, hence, dissolved radionuclides.   

basal colonnade - a subdivision of the dense interior of a basalt flow 
     consisting of relatively well-formed columns typically with fewer primary 
     fractures than in the entablature.   

basalt - a fine-grained solidified lava, rich in iron and magnesium minerals.  
     A dark- to medium-dark-colored, commonly extrusive, mafic igneous rock 
     composed chiefly of calcic plagioclase and clinopyroxene in a glassy or 
     fine-grained groundmass.   

bentonite - a soft, plastic, light-colored clay formed by chemical alteration 
     of volcanic ash.   

beta particle - a charged particle that is emitted by certain radioactive 
     materials and is physically identical with the electron.   

biosphere - the part of the Earth in which life can exist, including the 
     lithosphere, the hydrosphere, and the atmosphere.   

boiling-water reactor (BWR) - a nuclear reactor that uses boiling water to 
     generate electricity.   

borehole - a hole drilled into the earth, often for exploratory purposes.  A 
     borehole is generally of such a small diameter that workers cannot work 
     inside it.  It is most often drilled into the ground vertically, or
-418-
