Therefore, the overall management and control of the program are exer-
cised by the OCRWM Director and his staff from Headquarters.  Responsibility 
for the execution of the technical projects is delegated through the Associate 
Directors to the Project Office Managers, who manage the activities on a day-
to-day basis.  The management of detailed technical work and individual 
contractor tasks is best performed locally where DOE staff can monitor 
progress and deal with problems as they arise.  However, progress on each in-
dividual project is reported to Headquarters on a regular basis to enable the 
OCRWM Director to control overall cost, schedule, and technical performance.   

A major element of the DOE project-management system is the Field Work 
Package Proposal and Authorization System (WPAS).  Within this system, DOE 
Headquarters organizations like the OCRWM have the responsibility for develop-
ing program plans for achieving their goals.  The work required to execute a 
program is divided into a group of discrete elements in a work-breakdown 
structure.  Within the OCRWM, the Associate Directors are responsible for pro-
viding overall guidance for the elements of the work-breakdown structure in 
their areas of technical responsibility, with the work in each element to be 
performed by the Project Offices and their supporting contractors.   

The OCRWM is now developing a program-management system to meet the uni-
que requirements of the Act and to comply with the existing DOE project man-
agement system.  The OCRWM program management system (PMS) makes maximum use 
of existing and proved project-management mechanisms both to avoid repeating 
past mistakes and to ensure compliance with Federal regulations.  Many ele-
ments of the OCRWM system are already in place, and current plans are to docu-
ment and fully implement it during calendar year 1985.   

The OCRWM program-management system will provide a set of management 
tools needed to ensure that the performance of individual projects is inte-
grated into a program that develops and implements a total waste-management 
system and to document these management systems so that they can be uniformly 
and effectively used throughout the program.  In summary, the OCRWM program-
management system is a union of existing DOE management systems and additional 
systems needed to meet the unique needs of the program.   

The OCRWM program-management system will be documented in a PMS manual.  
The PMS manual will provide a set of mutually supportive, interrelated 
policies and procedures designed to enable the OCRWM Director to plan and con-
trol the implementation of the program.  A simplified illustration of the 
program-management system that shows the major management, control and report-
ing interfaces between Headquarters, the Operations Offices, and contractors 
is provided by Figure 5-3.  Figure 5-4 shows more of the details of the 
program planning and control process; it also lists the major plans, reports, 
and systems that comprise the program-management system.  The topics covered 
in the manual are summarized below.   

Program Management Organization and Responsibilities.  In this section, 
the management organization will be described in detail, including the assign-
ment of functions, responsibilities, and authority for each level of manage-
ment.  This includes a summary of the responsibilities of the supporting 
Project Offices. 
-151-
