2.4.1 ROCK MECHANICS  

The rock-mechanics task is concerned with obtaining field and laboratory 
data on the thermal and mechanical properties of the host rock (see issue 
1.3 in Chapter 1 of Part II) and developing mathematical models for predicting 
the response of the host rock to the construction of shafts, the excavation of 
the repository, and the emplacement of heat-generating radioactive waste.   

Basalt  

In basalt, a heated-block test has been conducted.  The results will be 
used to analyze the modes in which underground openings can fail.  In parallel 
with a continuing laboratory testing program, hydrofracture field tests on 
candidate basalt flows are being conducted to measure in-situ stress.  In ad-
dition, tests of thermal expansion and rock-mass strength are being conducted 
to amplify the geotechnical data base.   

Before starting the exploratory-shaft program (see Section 2.3), sensi-
tivity studies of stress and displacement around underground openings will be 
conducted to select geotechnical design parameters.  The results of these 
studies will be used in defining laboratory and field test programs for the 
exploratory shafts.   

Salt  

The material properties of salt are being obtained from testing rock 
cores in the laboratory and from field tests.  Studies of ongoing deformation 
processes have been undertaken and are in progress.  Diapiric evolution of 
salt domes has been studied by both physical and numerical modeling techni-
ques.  In addition, the instability due to more dense liquid overlying a less 
dense liquid in a gravity field is being studied.  This instability is an ana-
log of a more dense rock overlying a salt bed.  A study of this type, known as 
a Rayleigh-Taylor instability study, is being conducted.  In addition to these 
modeling efforts, field data have also been used.  Thermomechanical testing 
has determined the strength and deformational characteristics of salt from 
proposed repository horizons and of various rock units above and below the 
horizons.  Constitutive models that treat the thermomechanical response of 
materials under expected repository conditions have been formulated.  Specifi-
cally, the parameters for salt creep, the compressive and tensile strengths of 
salt, and the elastic properties of salt have been determined.   

At present, the salt studies are developing an adequate data base of 
physical properties to compare the seven salt sites from a geoengineering 
perspective.  The rates of room closure, the quantities of brine transported 
to the waste packages, rock stresses acting on the package, and similar quan-
tities are being estimated by means of predictive models that use physical 
properties determined in the laboratory and in the field.   

Data on rock-mass properties will be investigated in FY85 and future 
years.  The impact of bedding planes, interbeds, inclusions, jointing, faults, 
and folds on the response of the rock mass can control the design of the 
underground facilities.  The results of field tests (e.g., heated-core jack
-219-
