preliminary draft of the Mission Plan. 10 CFR ~60.113(b) gives DOE flexi-
bility, on a case-by-case basis, to propose tradeoffs among system components
(natural and engineered). At least tentative identification of component per-
formance goals by DOE is a necessary prerequisite to establishing what is a
necessary and sufficient level of testing during site characterization and
engineered component design phases. This could have a major impact on the DOE
schedule. For example, whether site characterization can be completed within
the 49 months assumed in the reference schedule (Case 2-B) or the 133 months
described in alternate scenarios (Case 2-D) depends primarily upon how these
performance goals are established and what is needed in terms of testing to
demonstrate that these performance goals are being met (see, for example,
Enclosure 2, Comment #3).

  "In both volumes (Volume I, page 3-A-15; Volume II, pages 2-38 and 2-39)
the Mission Plan generally addresses this matter. In Volume II, Section 2.6,
the systems engineering and performance assessment components of the DOE tech-
nology development activity are described. The description of the systems
engineering task (2.6.1) states that top-level program documents on the mined
geologic disposal system (MGDS) will be prepared for use in controlling tech-
nical requirements and in assuring uniformity of design efforts. Generic MGDS
documents are to be issued in FY84 and site specific MGDS documents will be
issued during FY84 and 85. The description of these documents suggests that
they will be used to determine `whether the individual parts of the system
will successfully work together' and to assure the system is optimized in
terms of `technical and cost performance.' These are necessary goals.
However, the discussion of these documents does not indicate that specific
performance goals for each repository system component will be established for
the purpose of establishing test needs, in Site Characterization Plans or
other DOE program documents referenced therein.

  "The performance assessment task description indicates that preliminary
assessments of site performance will be performed to determine what the sub-
system performance objectives will be (Figure 2-6), and that the preliminary
assessments will be used to evaluate data needs (Section 2.6.2). On its face,
this appears to be logical. Early and ongoing performance assessment is
needed to help identify data needs as indicated in the Mission Plan. However,
we believe that assessments of site performance at the present stage of the
repository program are likely to be premature for this purpose, given the
uncertainties that exist before site characterization.

  "Hence, we believe it would be prudent to make an early technical manage-
ment decision guided by the performance criteria of 10 CFR Part 60 as to what
the performance goals for individual components should be, and how much redun-
dancy among system components will be included. As indicated previously, the
earlier these goals are set the better, because of the long lead times
involved in repository design, development, and testing. Failure to do so
could preclude the collection of necessary information in time for licensing
and delay the program, as well as hinder NRC's ability to give timely guidance
to DOE on licensing needs. Until at least tentative decisions have been made
about intended component performance goals by DOE, the repository investi-
gation programs may be misdirected. As discussed in Enclosure 2, Comment #3,
the practical consequence of not having such goals is to preclude resolution
of uncertainties in the duration of in-situ testing.


-23-
