NRC OBJECTION 5

Statement of Objection

  "The Mission Plan should be revised to reflect the recent agreement
between DOE and the Commission on the timing of the preliminary determination
under Section 114(f) of NWPA.

  "At the June 22, 1984 Commission meeting on the Commission's concurrence
decision on the DOE siting guidelines, the Commission and DOE agreed that the
preliminary decision required by Section 114(f) of the NWPA should be made
after the completion of site characterization and not at the time of site
recommendation for characterization. The Mission Plan should be revised
accordingly to reflect this agreement."

Response

  Section 114(f) of the Act provides that the environmental impact state-
ment (EIS) for the first repository is to consider as alternative sites those
sites with respect to which "(1) site characterization has been completed
under section 113; and (2) the Secretary has made a preliminary determination,
that such sites are suitable for development as repositories consistent with
the guidelines promulgated under section 112(a)." The Act does not specify
when in the siting process the "preliminary determination" is to be made, but
by specifying that this determination by the Secretary was to be preliminary,
the Act recognized the possibility of a site's subsequently being found by the
Secretary to be unsuitable.

  At the June 22, 1984, Commission meeting on the Commission's concurrence
decision on the DOE siting guidelines, the DOE agreed to delete language from
Section 960.3-2-3 of the guidelines related to the timing of the preliminary
determination required under Section 114(f) of the Act and instead to specify
that timing in the Mission Plan. Therefore, in accordance with that
agreement, Section 3.1 of Part I in the Mission Plan specifies the timing of
the preliminary determination. It says that the preliminary determination is
to be made at the time the Secretary recommends three sites to the President
for site characterization.

  While discussions in that meeting may have indicated a further agreement
relative to the timing of the preliminary determination, the DOE has concluded
that a preliminary determination made after site characterization, as sug-
gested in the Commission's objection, would have the effect of requiring that
three sites be found suitable at the end of site characterization. At the
June 22 meeting the DOE made clear its understanding that three suitable sites
were not required at the end of site characterization. Requiring three
suitable sites at the end of site characterization would necessitate the DOE's
characterizing more than three sites or accepting the risk of large schedule
and cost uncertainties should one of the initial three sites be found
unsuitable. The Act does not require that more than three sites be
characterized, but rather anticipates that the repository site would be
selected from among the three characterized and that the repository would be
developed in a timely fashion.

  The purpose of the preliminary determination is to ensure the
reasonableness of the alternative sites considered. Although other points in


-25-
