Chapter 4 in Part I of Volume I is devoted to the C&C process and includes a
section on the C&C agreements required by Section 117(c) of the Act. This
section discusses the importance of these agreements, the State requests for
C&C agreements, the negotiation process, and the types of information that the
DOE expects will be included in an agreement. Discussions are not focused on
individual programs because the general goals and plans should apply to all
programs and be as consistent and as equitable as possible. A model C&C
agreement and details for procedures were not included because each affected
party will negotiate differently for its own agreement. The DOE recognizes
that improvements can be made in this process. Computer data bases for the
provision of timely information are being developed. Other examples of the
DOE's activities that will improve the C&C process are given in Chapter 4 of
Part I in Volume I. Detailed descriptions of Federal-State consultations for
the second repository are beyond the scope of the Mission Plan.

  The DOE is committed to establishing a successful comment-and-response
process for program documents and activities. Once program information is ob-
tained and shared, the DOE will solicit the concerns of affected parties and
take these concerns into account to the maximum extent feasible in carrying
out programmatic responsibilities. The DOE recognizes that affected parties
need to have an adequate amount of time to review and comment on major program
documents. Although the review period for the draft Mission Plan was 60 days,
the DOE accepted comments well after the end of this period. In response to
requests from States and other interested parties, the DOE provided a 90-day
comment period for the draft environmental assessments. Additional efforts by
the DOE to facilitate the review and comment process are described in Chapter
4 of Part I. The DOE also realizes the importance of responding quickly and
fully to the concerns of affected parties and will attempt, as it has in the
past, to meet the needs of these parties. Comment-response documents for
major program documents have been and will continue to be developed. The DOE
will continue to be responsive to the comments of affected parties to the
maximum extent possible.

  The C&C process is not limited to key documents. It also includes shar-
ing of information and participation in programmatic activities on a day-to-
day basis. The DOE is committed to establishing a C&C process with affected
parties that allows them to be involved actively in the DOE's efforts, in-
cluding those for site characterization.

  The DOE hopes that its commitment to establishing a full and open C&C
process will reduce the likelihood that a potential host State or affected
Indian tribe will issue a notice of disapproval, because the impacts on the
program would be substantial. Section 3.10 of Part II in Volume I discusses
the DOE's plans for resolving problems that may arise if a State or an af-
fected Indian tribe issues a notice of disapproval.

  The DOE recognizes that potential problems could arise because of "start-
up" time requirements for the second-repository States. The DOE will consult
and cooperate with these States to make this "startup" as smooth as possible.
The DOE will discuss the needs of each individual State and how the DOE can
help meet those needs. Increased technical funding from grants have been pro-
vided to these States, and the DOE has set up procedures for exchanging tech-
nical information with the States. However, an exchange of staff between the
DOE and the States and affected Indian tribes is not possible at present be-
cause of limited staff resources.


-65-
