  Several commenters expressed concern that the comment-and-response pro-
cess for various program documents and activities is not adequate. Wisconsin
(24-7, 24-22, 24-51) and one other party (81-2) complained that the DOE had
not considered their comments on key documents and asked the DOE to respond to
every comment they made on the Mission Plan. One commenter (51-3) expressed
concern that the DOE has not been responding to the comments submitted by var-
ious Governors on the siting guidelines within the 30 days required by Section
117(b)(2) of the Act and questioned how the DOE will meet similar requirements
in the future with such a rushed schedule. South Carolina (72-2) stated that
the States should be given more time to review documents and suggested a
90-day comment period.

  Mississippi (53-7) suggested that consultation should not be limited to
key documents. Nevada (48-30) and Mississippi (53-16) endorsed a statement
that the DOE's plans include consultation on the decision process for recom-
mending sites for characterization. However, the State of Nevada (48-30) felt
that this consultation is not likely to occur and urged that this conflict be
resolved.

  Several comments addressed the ability of States or tribes to submit a
notice of disapproval for a site within their borders. The Yakima Indian
Nation (31-8) stated that the States will probably use this process since the
States have very little say in preventing a repository from being sited. The
State of Ohio (65-18) commended the DOE for recognizing that considerable pro-
gram delay and cost could result from the disapproval process. One commenter
(29-5) expressed the opinion that "a veto is less likely to emerge" if the DOE
gains local and State concurrence by empowering individuals representing those
interests to participate in the decision.

  In order for affected States and Indian tribes to participate in the re-
pository program, they need to develop sufficient organizational capacity, and
three commenters made suggestions about the "start-up" time needed to develop
such capacity. Michigan (56-21) suggested that exchanges of staff between af-
fected States or Indian tribes and the DOE or its contractors might reduce the
start-up time. Virginia (47-1) suggested that greater funding for the second-
repository program should occur during the start-up period. Ohio (65-17) ex-
pressed concern over the Mission Plan's statement that, to permit institu-
tional continuity in a changing political climate (e.g., elections of State
officials), "the Department will encourage States to assign responsibilities
to specific agencies or officials (page 3-10 of Volume II). It was noted that
the DOE's recommendations may not be followed in all cases.

  Clark County, Nevada (49-20) took note of the statement (page 3-A-17 of
Volume 1) that the DOE's institutional relations program is governed by the
principles of consultation and cooperation with the States and affected Indian
tribes and sensitivity to the social and economic effects of repositories, to
ensure that all valid concerns are addressed. Clark County advised that the
determination of valid concerns should be "mutually agreed on between Federal,
State, and local governments."

Response

  The DOE recognizes the importance to the program of consultation and co-
operation with States and affected Indian tribes. A section of the new


-64-
