Chapter 14

PROGRAM MANAGEMENT


  "Program Management," Chapter IV of Volume I in the draft Mission Plan
elicited many comments, with centralized management and the organization of
the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management (OCRWM) being the
principal topics of interest. Program-management issues were also addressed
in comments directed at Section III.A of Volume I and Chapter 2 of Volume II.
These comments are summarized and answered here under the following topics:
general and specific comments on the OCRWM organization (Sections 14.1 and
14.2, respectively), centralized program management (14.3), project control
(Section 14.4), other management issues (section 14.5), and quality assurance
(Section 14.6).

  In the revised Mission Plan, Chapters IV and Section III.A of Volume I
are Chapter 5 and Section 3.1 of Part I, respectively, and Chapter 2 of Volume
II is now in Part II.

  Cited in the responses are various DOE documents. The bibliographic
details about these documents can be found in the bibliography at the end of
Volume I.

  14.1 GENERAL COMMENTS ON THE OCRWM ORGANIZATION AND ITS ADEQUACY

Synopsis of Comments

  It was implicit in a number of comments on Chapter IV of Volume I that
the discussion of the organizational structure and functions of the OCRWM
should be expanded. South Carolina (72-57) recommended that the chapter be
integrated with other sections of the Mission Plan and said that it needs
"more integration with DOE field offices, contractors, and interested parties"
(States, industry, and laboratories). A public interest group (67-21) was
concerned that the OCRWM organizational structure was not adequate to
implement the program and asked for a detailed discussion of the DOE's
organization, including the OCRWM itself, the DOE Operations Offices, and
contractors. One commenter (51-7) asked for an explanation of how the
organizational structure involves participation of contractors and a
comparison of differences in project management among the three
first-repository projects. The State of Texas (83-74) asked that the OCRWM
organization chart be updated in the final Mission Plan.

  Ohio (65-1) commented that the "decision-making process has been
fractionated to the point where it is not clear who has the authority to make
a decision or who bears the responsibility for it." Stating that the
radioactive-waste program has a history of temporary and unstable organization
in terms of both personnel and contractors, Mississippi (53-59) emphasized the
necessity of a permanent management system. The Public Service Commission of
Michigan (54-2, 54-4, 54-9, 54-10, 54-11) suggested that a review of the


-303-
