ENCLOSURE 1
EEI/UNWMG JULY 9, 1984
COMMENTS ON DOE DRAFT MISSION PLAN


Waste-Acceptance Schedule, Interim Storage, Waste-Generation Rate

  A clear, unequivocal commitment by DOE to accept spent fuel/
high-level waste from utilities at reasonable rates beginning in
1998 is needed. Rates of acceptance and the criteria for accep-
tance must be specified so that it is clear when the transfer of
physical possession of spent fuel occurs. This is essential for
utility planning to ensure adequate on-site storage.

  The December 20, 1983 version of the Draft Mission Plan
stated that waste materials would be accepted in accordance with
a schedule in the first five years such that no utility would
have to provide additional storage capacity after January 31,
1998. Subsequently, the acceptance rate would be equal to or
greater than the actual discharge rate of spent fuel each year.
A stated purpose of this approach was to ensure that all utili-
ties would be able to establish firm planning schedules for the
disposition of their radioactive wastes sufficiently early to
determine their on-site interim storage needs prior to 1998, and
that additional storage capacity would not be needed after 1998.
This appears fair and reasonable.

  The significant change from the earlier position to the one
described in the April 1984 draft Mission Plan raises serious
concern among utility members as to the value being received for
the considerable monies provided to DOE. DOE is urged, therefore,
to issue the criteria for establishing a firm schedule for the
removal of spent fuel from utility facilities at a time much
earlier than the 1991 date specified in the standard contracts.
In order for the utility industry to have a base of planning
which can be relied upon, it is requested that DOE establish the
criteria for the schedule and publish a firm schedule as soon as
possible of commitments to accept all fuel discharged. It is
understood that collection of revised information on actual fuel
inventories and forecasts is now underway, so DOE should have
sufficient information to prepare such a schedule. It is recom-
mended that these published commitments be updated annually to
reflect actual fuel quantities discharged at the time the pro-
jection is prepared.

  Table II 1: Waste Acceptance Schedule, indicates that the
utilities will have provided storage capability at reactor sites
for 40,800 metric tons of spent fuel by 1998. The DOE plan
should establish as an underlying principle that aggregate
cumulative storage at reactor sites should not exceed the amount
of storage as of January 31, 1998. DOE should commit to taking
title to spent fuel and moving it to federal facilities at a rate
equivalent to at least the reactor discharge rate, whether or not
a repository is available to dispose of the spent fuel at the
discharge rate. This may be accomplished through the use of lag
storage at the waste handling and receiving facility, lag storage
at the repository, or in a monitored retrievable storage
facility.


-36-
