CONSULTATION DRAFT


	quality, grade, and quantity, they will be reclassified as
	identified resources.

     b.	Speculative resources: Undiscovered resources that may occur
	either in known types of deposits in favorable geologic set-
	tings where mineral discoveries have not been made, or in types
	of deposits as yet unrecognized for their economic potential.
	If exploration confirms their existence and reveals enough
	information about their quantity, grade, and quality, they will
	be reclassified as identified resources.

  USBM/USGS (1980) further states that "materials that are too low grade
or for other reasons not considered to be economic may be recognized and
their magnitude estimated, but they are not classified as resources." A
separate category, labeled "other occurrences," is included in Figure 1-74
for materials of this nature. Further details on this classification system
are given in USBM/USGS (1980).

  A mineral or energy reserve is that part of the total resource that can
be economically extracted or produced at the present time, or at the time the
resource evaluation is conducted (USBM/USGS, 1980). Current economic condi-
tions define the difference between a resource and a reserve. As economic
conditions change, production of a mineral reserve could become subeconomic
and the mineral would be reclassified as a resource. A commodity classified
as a resource could be reclassified as a reserve as the value of the
commodity increases.

Methods of mineral-energy-resource assessment

  Mineral-energy-resource assessments are conducted for a variety of
reasons, such as establishing a national policy, location of a company's
future exploration target, or projecting future availability of a commodity.
Methods used in resource assessments vary widely (Singer and Mosier, 1981)
due to several factors, including varied goals, scale or size of the area
considered, time available, the acceptable level of uncertainty, and the
particular user of an assessment.

  The methods of resource assessment used in this section are varied and
depend upon a number of factors, including (1) the abundance of the resource
at Yucca Mountain, in the vicinity of Yucca Mountain, and in the surrounding
region; (2) the present technological procedures of resource assessment for a
particular resource; (3) the type of resource involved (the resource assess-
ment for gold has many characteristics different from an assessment of geo-
thermal energy); and (4) the type and amount of data available to perform the
assessment. For instances in which the amount of data or information are
insufficient to perform the assessment, the need for additional studies will
be specified.

  Resource assessments make wide use of two broad overlapping categories
of methods: extrapolation and analogy (Singer and Mosier, 1981). These two
methods will be used to a large extent in this section, although specific
details of the two methods may vary. A quantitative approach to resource
assessment is very desirable, but the immense and varied data base required
for statistical treatment or other quantitative and analytical methods is


1-259
