CONSULTATION DRAFT


these parameters in Table 2-9 are identical to the intact rock values in
Table 2-7. The use of these parameters in estimating corresponding rock mass
values for use in design analysis is discussed in detail in Section 6.1.2.

  The fracture properties given in Table 2-9 are preliminary because of
the scarcity of experimental data on the frictional properties of joints in
tuff. Fracture cohesion values are assumed to be independent of the degree
of welding of the rock in which the fracture occurs, so that values for air-
dry joints and saturated joints are about 0.2 and 0.7 MPa, respectively
(Figures 2-11 and 2-13). The first value is assigned to all units above the
water table (assumed to be unit CHn3 and above), and the second value is
assigned to all saturated units.

  Two experimental results indicate that saturated welded tuff and air-dry
nonwelded tuff both have coefficients of friction of 0.59 at the initiation
of slip. On the basis of the observations of Teufel (1981), values for sat-
urated joints are assumed to be 9 percent greater than those for dry joints.
Thus, the coefficient of friction for dry joints in welded tuff is assumed to
be 0.54, whereas that of saturated joints in nonwelded tuff is assumed to be
0.64. The appropriate values are given in Table 2-9, with the assumption
about the location of the water table as previously stated.

  Additional discussion of environmental effects on joint frictional para-
meters is provided in Section 6.1.2, which also provides estimates of values
appropriate to design analyses.

	2.4 THERMAL AND THERMOMECHANICAL PROPERTIES--INTACT ROCK
  An understanding of the temperatures and stresses resulting from heating
is important in (1) predicting thermal effects on ground-water movement and
radionuclide releases and (2) establishing underground design criteria (e.g.,
tunnel size and spacing, emplacement hole geometry, and waste container ther-
mal output) for the repository at Yucca Mountain. Thermal and thermomechani-
cal data ordinarily have been obtained from small-scale laboratory tests on
intact rock. This section summarizes available information from such tests,
whereas Section 2.5 deals with data from large-scale measurements in the
field.

  The thermal properties of the rock necessary to calculate transient heat
flow are the thermal conductivity, the density, and the heat capacity. The
calculation of thermal strain requires a knowledge of the thermal expansion
behavior of the rock, hence thermal-expansion coefficients must be deter-
mined. Thermally induced stresses (in an elastic material) can be calculated
from the thermal strains, the modulus of deformation, and Poisson's ratio.
The data for the last two properties are provided in Sections 2.1.2.2, 2.1.3,
and 2.3.3.

  Thermal conductivity is a measure of the ability of a material to trans-
mit heat. With regard to a repository, thermal conductivity relates to the
ability of the geologic host rock to conduct heat away from waste containers.
Thermal conductivity is thus one of the critical input parameters for com-
puter modeling of the temperature field generated by the emplaced waste. For


2-66

