CONSULTATION DRAFT
predominate.  Temperatures range from 22 to 56~C, and pH values are 6.6 to 
9.2.  Although plots of relative cation and anion concentrations indicate a 
general description of sodium bicarbonate water, the ground water at Yucca 
Mountain is not chemically homogeneous.  The differences in ionic composition 
among the wells is outlined and the authors conclude that ground water from 
the wells in the Yucca Mountain area has a significant degree of lateral and 
vertical chemical variability. 

	Claassen (1973) reports chemical data from eight wells drawing water 
from the tuff strata in the north, southeast, and southwest areas of the 
(NTS).  The analyses are in good agreement with the previously reported data.

	The chemical composition of 15 ground-water samples from Pahute Mesa 
were reported by Blankennagel and Weir (1973).  As with other waters from the 
tuff aquifer, the ground water of Pahute Mesa is of a sodium potassium 
bicarbonate type.  Sodium plus potassium ranged from 58 to 99 percent of the 
total cations, with 8 of the samples having the alkali ions present at more 
than 90 percent.  Bicarbonate is the most abundant anion with bicarbonate 
plus carbonate making up more than 50 percent of the total anions in 12 of 
the samples.  Water from the western side of the mesa has dissolved solids 
concentrations ranging from 206 to 336 mg/L, and averaging 280 mg/L.  In the 
eastern part of the mesa, the dissolved solids range from 117 to 248 mg/L, 
and average 200 mg/L.  Blankennagel and Weir (1973) consider that the lesser 
concentrated water in the east may be due to its nearness to areas of 
recharge.

	Chemical analyses for 12 ground-water samples primarily from the north-
ern area of the NTS are presented by Claassen (1985).  Claassen (1985) recog-
nized that some of the samples were atypical of the regional tuffaceous 
aquifer.  These samples "all represent very young, generally perched ground 
water," thus not having evolved chemically to the extent of the waters repre-
sentative of the regional aquifer.  Specifically, the decrease in calcium 
relative to sodium is presumed to result from greater quantities of clinopti-
lolite precipitated from a ground-water composition evolved by reaction with 
vitric tuff and, therefore represents a trend of increasing maturity of 
ground water.

	Figure 3-12 provides a graphical description of water in the tuffaceous 
aquifer in the form of a Piper diagram.

Lower carbonate aquifer

	Schoff and Moore (1964) recognized two varieties of water in the 
regional carbonate aquifer:  a calcium magnesium bicarbonate type and a mixed 
type.  Winograd and Pearson (1976) determined that the variation in composi-
tion corresponded to the distance from recharge area.  The authors found that 
ground water in close proximity to the Spring Mountains recharge area was 
typical of water moving through an upland carbonate; that is, calcium (45 to 
69 mg/L), magnesium (10 to 16 mg/L) and bicarbonate (180 to 290 mg/L) occur-
red as primary constituents, and sodium, potassium, chloride and sulfate were 
present in negligible quantities.  Water that is primarily calcium magnesium 
bicarbonate is still found at intermediate points along the flow system; 
however, concentrations of sodium and sulfate are increased.  Finally, near 
the Ash Meadows discharge area sodium, sulfate, and chloride are present as
3-83
