CONSULTATION DRAFT
       Chapter 3

       HYDROLOGY

	This chapter summarizes present knowledge of the regional and site 
hydrologic systems.  The purpose of the information presented is to (1) des-
cribe the hydrology based on available literature and preliminary site-    
exploration activities that have been or are being performed and (2) provide 
information to be used to develop the hydrologic aspects of the planned site 
characterization program.

   INTRODUCTION

	An understanding of the hydrologic regime is required for many of the 
issues in the Nevada Nuclear Waste Storage Investigations (NNWSI) Project 
Issues Hierarchy (Section 8.2).  In particular, the nine Performance Issues 
(1.1 through 1.9) of Key Issue 1 (related to the postclosure environment); 
the Characterization Programs 8.3.1.2 (geohydrology), 8.3.1.3 (geochemistry),
and 8.3.1.9 (water resources); the Performance Issue (4.1) of Key Issue 4 
(preclosure); and the Characterization Program 8.3.1.16 (hydrology) all per-
tain directly to hydrology.  In addition, other programs are indirectly 
related to hydrology, (e.g., Programs 8.3.1.5, 8.3.1.6, and 8.3.1.8 question 
the effects that climatic change, erosional processes, and tectonic processes  
exert on the hydrologic characteristics at the site).  Furthermore, issues 
related to design (both in the preclosure and postclosure time frames) 
require a knowledge of the emplacement environment, a major component of 
which is moisture.  Therefore, an understanding of the hydrologic system in 
and around Yucca Mountain is paramount to satisfying many of the issues in 
the issues hierarchy.

	One of the primary advantages of the proposed Yucca Mountain repository 
site is that it is intended to be located in the unsaturated zone, approxi- 
mately 300 m above the saturated zone.  This chapter discusses in detail the 
present understanding of hydrologic conditions within the unsaturated zone, 
as well as conditions in the saturated zone and in the surface hydrologic 
systems; the last two act as boundaries to the unsaturated zone.

	For convenience in describing the hydrologic regime, two types of study 
areas are defined in this chapter:  (1) a hydrographic study area  (Figure  
3-1) that delineates the regional surface water system that encompasses Yucca 
Mountain and (2) a hydrogeologic study area (Figure 3-2), the boundaries of 
which approximate the regional ground-water flow system surrounding Yucca 
Mountain.  These study areas represent the areas from which published data 
were compiled to describe the hydrology of the region and site; additional 
investigations are planned for parts of these study areas, as described in 
Section 8.3.1.2.

	The hydrographic study area is composed of eight smaller hydrographic 
areas as described by Waddell et al. (1984) (Figure 3-1).  Yucca Mountain 
lies on the boundary of the Crater Flat and Fortymile Canyon-Jackass Flats 
hydrographic areas.  Detailed discussions of the surface-water system within
3-1
