CONSULTATION DRAFT


sulfate remain unchanged; and the pH (8.1 to 8.4) increases slightly. The
changes, however, do not greatly affect sorption.

  The spiked-feed solutions for each tuff sample were prepared by adding
measured concentrations of radionuclide tracers to the pretreated water.
Spiked-feed solutions are prepared as described by Daniels et al. (1982) for
separate radionuclides. The final concentrations of the feed solutions
generally range from 10-6 to 10-9 M; plutonium concentrations as low as 10-11
M have been studied.

4.1.3.2.2  Batch sorption methods

  In batch measurements of sorptive properties, the distribution of a
radionuclide is measured between ground water and crushed tuff as a function
of contact time, the concentration of sorbing species, particle size, temper-
ature, oxidation-reduction conditions, ground-water components, and lithol-
ogy. In the batch procedure, a 1-g sample of crushed tuff is pretreated by
contact with 20 ml of well J-13 ground water for at least 2 wk. The ground
water used to prepare the solution containing radionuclides (spiked-feed sol-
ution) is also pretreated by contact for at least 2 wk with a crushed-tuff
sample from the same section of core. The solids are separated from the
liquid by centrifuging after the pretreatment period.

  A sorption measurement starts when 20 ml of spiked-feed solution is
added to the 1-g sample of tuff treated with ground water. The concentra-
tion of the spiked element ranges from 10-6 to 10-13 M, except in isotherm
measurements where concentrations approaching the solubility limit are
investigated. Care is taken to ensure that the spike concentration is well
below predicted solubility limits in standard experiments. Except for the
highest concentrations used in the isotherm studies (generally greater than
10-4 M), no significant change in sorption ratio has been observed with
changing spike concentrations covering six to seven orders of magnitude
(Wolfsberg et al., 1981; Daniels et al., 1982; Rundberg et al., 1985). Next,
the two phases are thoroughly mixed and the sample is placed in a shaker to
be agitated at about 200 rpm for selected times. At the end of the sorption
period, the sample is removed from the shaker and the solids are separated by
centrifuge. Tracer (spike) activity in the separated solid and liquid phases
then is determined and the pH of the liquid is measured. The analytical
techniques for each element are discussed by Daniels et al. (1982), who also
discussed the technique used to completely separate the solids from the
aqueous phase and to calculate the sorption ratios. The standard sorption
and desorption times were 6 wk each. The data in Appendix A of Daniels et
al. (1982) show that sorption either increases with time or remains
unchanged. The choice of 6 weeks (or a total of 12 wk for both sorption and
desorption measurements) was a compromise between reaching equilibrium, if
that were even possible, and completing the measurements within a reasonable
amount of time.

  After the radioactivity of a solid phase has been measured, a desorption
measurement is started. Tuff-pretreated ground water (20 ml) without tracer
is added to the remaining solid phase. The sample is agitated again to
ensure a thorough mixing of the two phases. The rock sample is separated


4-62
