CONSULTATION DRAFT
physical, and nuclear properties are being quantified and evaluated for their 
effects on the long-term performance of the waste package and the repository. 
The research and development accomplished to date are described in Sec-
tion 7.4; future plans for work associated with quantification and evaluation 
of these interactions are outlined in Sections 8.3.4, 8.3.5.9, and 8.3.5.10.

7.2.1.3.2 Technical feasibility

	A waste package design requirement derives from the preclosure siting 
guidelines (10 CFR 960.5-1(a)(3)).  This guideline requires that the reposi-
tory (and therefore the waste packages produced and emplaced therein) shall 
be demonstrated to be technically feasible on the basis of reasonably avail-
able technology and that the associated costs be reasonable.  The specific 
criteria that follow from these requirements are

1.	Processes specified for the fabrication, assembly, closure, and 
	inspection of waste packages shall be based on reasonably available 
	technology.  These processes need not be reduced to commercial 
	practice in all applicable details but shall not require significant 
	extensions of the technology.

2.	Waste package designs shall not impose requirements on the reposi-
	tory packaging, handling, and emplacement facilities, equipment, or 
	operations that are beyond reasonably available technology.

3.	In evaluation of design concepts, materials, and process alterna-
	tives, consideration shall be given to cost effectiveness.  This 
	consideration shall be secondary to realization of designs that will 
	be technically conservative and meet the regulatory performance 
	objectives.

7.2.1.3.3 Waste form temperature limitation criteria

	Maximum temperature of the waste forms must be maintained below limits 
established for them.  These limits are 500~C for West Valley (WV) and 
Defense High-Level Waste (DHLW) glass and 350~C for spent fuel cladding.  
These values are considered conservative for the following reasons.  For 
spent fuel, the spent fuel storage program report (Einziger, 1986) indicates 
a 380~C temperature limit for the cladding.  A more conservative value of 
350~C has been selected to account for uncertainties in source character-
istics as well as heat transfer calculations.  For the glass waste forms, the 
NNWSI Project has the responsibility to maintain the peak temperature below 
the transition temperature.  The NNWSI Project has established a 500~C 
temperature limitation for this reason.

	These limitations have been established by the NNWSI Project to reduce 
the potential for degradation of the waste forms.  The limit for high-level 
waste glass has been determined to prevent devitrification, which might 
degrade the properties that are important in limiting radionuclide release.
7-16
