CONSULTATION DRAFT


aspect of the setting on postclosure performance. Each guideline has a qual-
ifying condition that must be met for a site to be acceptable. In addition,
five of the technical guidelines have at least one disqualifying condition.
A site is unacceptable if any one of the disqualifying conditions is found
present. The technical guidelines also identify favorable conditions and
potentially adverse conditions that describe characteristics of the setting
that, if present, could contribute to or detract from the postclosure per-
formance of a site.

  The Implementation Guidelines require that the qualifying and disquali-
fying conditions of the system and technical guidelines be evaluated and that
specific findings be made for each condition at principal decision points in
the siting process. These findings are stated in 10 CFR Part 960, Appendix
III. There are four levels of findings (Table 8.2-14). Lower-level findings
(Levels 1 and 3) must be made to determine if a site may be nominated as
suitable for characterization or recommended as a candidate site for charac-
terization. Higher-level findings (Levels 2 and 4) must be made to determine
if a site may be recommended for the development of a repository. Disquali-
fying conditions require Level 1 and Level 2 findings, and qualifying
conditions require Level 3 and Level 4 findings. Each level has both a
positive finding and a negative finding associated with it.

  The findings that have already been made and the evidence supporting
these findings are given in the NNWSI Project environmental assessment (DOE,
1986b). The available evidence was sufficient to support positive higher-
level findings for the qualifying and disqualifying conditions of the disso-
lution technical guideline and positive lower-level findings for the quali-
fying and disqualifying conditions of the other technical guidelines and the
postclosure system guideline. To determine if the Yucca Mountain site is
suitable for the development of a repository, therefore, higher-level
findings must be made for the the remaining qualifying and disqualifying
conditions.

  The DOE Siting Guidelines do not require any findings similar to lower-
level or higher-level findings to be made for the favorable or potentially
adverse conditions of the technical guidelines. As stated in the Overview of
the Guidelines section of the Supplementary Information (DOE, 1984c) for
10 CFR Part 960, these conditions were intended to be used to predict the
suitability of a site and provide a preliminary indication of system
performance before the start of detailed site characterization studies.
These conditions were considered and used in the identification of
potentially acceptable sites and in the nomination and recommendation of
sites as suitable for characterization. By the completion of site
characterization, however, sufficient data will be available to directly
evaluate site performance against the qualifying conditions of the system and
technical guidelines. Therefore, the favorable and potentially adverse
conditions will not be considered in specific terms as they were for the
environmental assessment.

Technical background and issue resolution strategy (Issue 1.9(a))

  To resolve Issue 1.9(a), sufficient evidence must be available to sup-
port either a positive or negative higher-level finding for each qualifying


8.2-92
