CONSULTATION DRAFT


the percolation of precipitation into the unsaturated zone. The chlorine-36
in the unsaturated zone occurs from atmospheric fallout of chlorine-36
produced by cosmic-ray secondaries reacting with argon-40 and, to a lesser
extent, with argon-36 and as global fallout from high-yield nuclear weapons
tests conducted at the Pacific Proving Grounds between 1952 and 1963. When
chloride ions at the surface are washed underground by precipitation, the
radioactive decay of the chlorine-36 in the chloride can be used to time the
rate of water movement. The chlorine-36 half-life of 301,000 yr permits the
detection of water movement in the range of approximately 50,000 to 2 million
years. These data are part of the input for developing numerical models of
ground-water flow at this site.

  Measurements of technetium-99, when combined with some of the chlorine
isotopic distributions, will provide data about the in situ sorption
characteristics of technetium. The in situ data will be correlated with
laboratory measurements of technetium sorption to help assess the reliability
of using sorption data from laboratory experiments in modeling radionuclide
transport under field conditions.

8.3.1.2.2.2.1  Activity: Chloride and chlorine-36 measurements of
	       percolation at Yucca Mountain

Objectives

  The purpose of this activity is to help quantify the amount of percola-
tion from precipitation into the unsaturated zone at Yucca Mountain. The
data will be used as part of the input to characterize the movement of water
through the unsaturated zone at Yucca Mountain.

Parameters

	Data needed is for the following parameters:

	1. Precipitation measurements.
	2. Dry chloride fallout.
	3. Fracture morphology in Paintbrush Tuff.
	4. Site hydrology and hydrochemistry.

	Data has been gathered for the following parameters:

	1. Depth of each sample from the surface.
	2. Chloride in soil and tuff samples.
	3. Chlorine-36 to chlorine ratios in soil and tuff samples.
	4. Chlorine-35 to chlorine-37 ratios in soil and tuff samples.

Description

	Previous work in this subactivity has resulted in the measurement of
chlorine-36 as a function of depth in soils from two locations at Yucca
Mountain. The data permitted the calculation of infiltration during the past
quarter century at one location, trench YW-6. The small quantity of chlor-
ine-36 observed at the second location, the exploratory shaft site in Coyote


8.3.1.2-137
