CONSULTATION DRAFT


  Whether the Solitario Canyon fault zone is a hydraulic barrier or a con-
duit will be investigated by pumping from one or more holes and observing
responses in nearby holes. Investigation of probable reasons for a steep
gradient immediately north of the repository block may indicate the hydraulic
nature of faults located in that area.

  Hydraulic and water-chemistry data from proposed drillholes USW WT-8 and
USW H-7, both located east of drillhole USW H-6, will be used principally to
help determine (1) if the ground-water flow paths in the vicinity are from
west to east across the Solitario Canyon fault, as suggested by differences
in water levels in holes on either side of the canyon, and (2) the nature and
degree of any hydraulic connection across the fault zone. If there is no
significant eastward movement across the fault, this would have a major
impact on both conceptual and computer models. The models have assumed that
ground-water flow in the saturated zone beneath the repository block gen-
erally is toward the south and southeast (e.g., from drillhole USW H-4 toward
well J-13), even though present resolution of water-level data from south or
east of the block is not enough to determine with high assurance the magni-
tude or direction of apparent gradients.

Hydraulic gradients

  At drillhole UE-25 p#1, the hydraulic potential is 20 m higher in the
Paleozoic carbonate rocks and the lowest 134 m of the Tertiary rocks than in
the overlying volcanic rocks (Craig and Robison, 1984). Higher heads were
observed at a depth of 1,800 m in drillhole USW H-1, where the level is about
773 m, whereas the water table is about 730 m above sea level. Data from
Robison (1984, 1986) show that within the upper 500 m of the saturated zone,
there is no upward gradient (drillholes UE-25b#1, USW H-1, USW H-3, USW H-4,
USW H-5, and USW H-6) (Figure 8.3.1.2-23).

  In the vicinity of the repository block at Yucca Mountain and eastward
into Jackass Flats for 5 km or more, the potentiometric surface is nearly
flat (730 m above sea level). Water-level altitudes in nearby drillholes are
higher to the west of the block (775 m) and to the north (778 to 1,031 m).

  Beneath the repository block and downgradient from it, the water table
is so flat that periodic water-level measurements (every several weeks), even
when made with very high accuracy and precision, cannot be used to determine
average water-level differences and gradients among wells. The reason for
this, based on preliminary measurements, is that in many drillholes the
short-term water-level variations due to barometric changes, earth tides and
possibly other phenomena, although they are small, are greater than apparent
differences among nearby drillholes. Therefore, water-level averages of
months or perhaps years are necessary to determine gradients and probable
flow paths near the repository. The present and planned expansion of contin-
uous water-level measurements in observation drillholes will provide the data
for determining the needed average water levels.

  Continuous water-level data, in addition to being used for calculating
average levels, may be helpful for evaluating the general hydraulic character
of intervals penetrated by observation drillholes, and for estimating hydrau-
lic parameters from responses to short-term stresses, such as earth tides,
barometric changes, seismic events, or pumping of nearby wells. For those


8.3.1.2-293
