CONSULTATION DRAFT


  The relationship between the investigations performed under this
characterization program and the issues and programs that require information
on erosion locations, rates, and processes is shown in Figure 8.3.1.6-1.

Interrelationships of erosion investigations

  Four investigations have been developed to provide the data required by
the performance and design issues. Many of the necessary parameters have
been obtained and evaluated as part of the ongoing scientific studies at the
Nevada Test Site (NTS) in support of the weapons testing program. In most
instances, data are not site specific and, therefore, not adequate to satisfy
the performance and design issues. Studies will be carried out during site
characterization to satisfy these remaining data needs.

  Investigation 8.3.1.6.1 will collect site-specific data on Quaternary
erosion and stream incision rates, which will be used to calculate average
erosion rates on Yucca Mountain and to develop a history of the downcutting
episode(s) of Fortymile Wash. Investigation 8.3.1.6.2 includes studies to
assess the potential effects of future climatic changes on locations and
rates of erosion. Previously established regional erosion rates suggest that
future changes in the climatic regime will not significantly affect upland
and hillslope erosion rates. Local erosion data on Yucca Mountain and an
evaluation of the relationship of increased runoff in Fortymile Canyon,
Fortymile Wash, and their tributaries to localized stream incision rates are
needed for Information Need 2.7.1 (Section 8.3.2.3.1). Investigation
8.3.1.6.3 will evaluate the effects of tectonic activity on rates of erosion.

  Investigation 8.3.1.6.4 addresses the potential effects of erosion on
the baseline hydrologic, geochemical, and rock characteristics at Yucca
Mountain. Because the effects of erosional processes on the baseline
conditions are not expected to pose any hazard to waste isolation and are not
expected to affect the postclosure ground-water travel time, no further
studies or activities are planned. These topics will be addressed in a
topical report, which will present the discussion supporting termination of
the erosion program.

  Other investigations will provide data in the form of input parameters
to the erosion program. Investigations 8.3.1.5.1 and 8.3.1.8.2 will provide
data on the nature and extent of future climatic changes and tectonic activ-
ity, respectively. Data obtained to date on regional tectonic and climatic
activity during the Quaternary Period suggest that very little change will
occur in the erosional regime at Yucca Mountain during the postclosure period
as a result of these processes (Chapters 1 and 5). Limited site-specific
studies will be completed to determine quantitatively, on the basis of
Quaternary erosion rates, the extent of potential stream incision that could
result from future tectonic activity and climatic changes.

  Although the long-term average upland and hillslope erosion rates have
been established for the southern Great Basin, they may not be representative
of actual erosion rates on Yucca Mountain or of the short-term episodes of
stream incision that may occur when a critical process threshold is exceeded.
Fortymile Canyon, Fortymile Wash, and their tributary channels, that are
located on the eastern flanks of Yucca Mountain, may be subject to critical


8.3.1.6-4
