CONSULTATION DRAFT


  The NRC has issued at least four regulatory guides that either refer-
ence, provide examples of, or suggest the use of models to determine ~~~
values, but none of them were developed specifically for geologic reposi-
tories. However, some of the information in these guidelines will be appli-
cable to a repository. These guides are (1) Regulatory Guide 1.109--
Calculation of Annual Doses to Man from Routine Releases of Reactor Effluents
for the Purpose of Evaluating Compliance with 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix I
(NRC, 1977a); (2) Regulatory Guide 1.111--Methods for Estimating Atmospheric
Transport and Dispersion of Gaseous Effluents in Routine Releases from
Light-Water-Cooled Reactors (NRC, 1977d); (3) Regulatory Guide 1.145--
Atmospheric Dispersion Models for Potential Accident Consequence Assessments
at Nuclear Power Plants (NRC, 1982a); and (4) Regulatory Guide 3.8--
Preparation of Environmental Reports for Uranium Mills (NRC, 1982c). These
documents will be reviewed to ensure that the dispersion analysis done for
Yucca Mountain is comprehensive enough to satisfy typical NRC requirements.

  The guidance for the EPA is contained within the guideline on air
quality models (EPA, 1986). The EPA has also developed and provides a
magnetic tape containing a variety of the approved and most frequently used
models. Although the EPA models are aimed at assessing nonradiological
impacts, ~~~ values can be calculated using these models as well.

  The ~~~ values will be calculated at discrete locations, but the
receptor grid is arbitrary in that no specific sites have been selected for
evaluation. Instead, a radial receptor grid will be used and ~~~ values at
distances of 4, 8, 16, 24, 32, 40, 48, 56, 64, 72, and 80 km from an assumed
source will be calculated in each of the 16 cardinal directions for a total
of 176 receptors.

  To ensure responsiveness to the design and performance issues, ~~~s
representing routine and accident release scenarios must be developed.
Routine releases will be evaluated by calculating an annual average ~~~ value
at each of the receptors. Because the accident scenarios must be evaluated
under meteorologically worst-case conditions (in terms of dispersion),
one-hour ~~~ values also will be required.

  Other data needed as input to a dispersion model are one year of hourly
sequential meteorological data (wind speed, wind direction, temperature,
mixing height, and Pasquill stability class), receptor terrain heights and
their Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) coordinates, and source character-
istics (UTM coordinates, stack height, stack diameter, exit gas velocity,
exit gas temperature, and building-stack configuration). Once all these data
have been put in the format required by the model, the model is run.
Although the basic equations used in calculating an ~~~ value are not excep-
tionally complex, the large number of calculations required for a year of
hourly meteorological data dictates the use of a computer.

  A report presenting the ~~~ values and the information used in calcu-
lating those values will be prepared at annual intervals for up to 5 years.

Methods and technical procedures

  The method and procedure for Activity 8.3.1.12.2.1.2 is given in the
following table.


8.3.1.12-24
