is considered negligible. The range in porosity is represented by the
mean value plus and minus one standard deviation from the mean.

  Grain density is defined as the grain weight divided by the grain
volume; bulk density is defined as the sum of the grain plus pore water
weight divided by the bulk volume. These two parameters are important in
understanding thermal properties (Sections 2.3.1.5 and 6.4.4), performing
thermal analyses (Section 6.4.4), and performing mechanical analyses
(Section 7.1.3). The range represents plus and minus one standard devia-
tion from the mean. For bulk density, two values are presented for each
unit: the value of the observed in situ saturation and a value for dry
rock.

  The corresponding values for in situ saturation presented for
thermal/mechanical units located above the water table (Table 2-4) were
obtained from laboratory measurements on cores taken from the site
(Montazer and Wilson, 1984). A 100% saturation state was assumed for
thermal/mechanical units located below the water table. Thermal con-
ductivity for all units and thermal capacitance for the units below the
water table (Unit PPw and underlying units) are for a nominal saturation
of 1.0 (100% saturation), whereas thermal capacitance is calculated using
saturations from Montazer and Wilson (1984) for units above the water
table (Unit CHn3z and overlying units).

2.3.1.2 Deformability Properties

  Deformability properties are parameters necessary for performing the
analyses (Section 7.3.2) that determine the mechanical response induced
by excavation (mechanical) and waste emplacement (thermomechanical). In
the context of the reference design data base, deformability properties
are defined as those properties of intact rock, fractures, and rock mass
that relate stress to strain before the onset of yield (as defined in
Section 2.3.1.3).

  For intact rock (Table 2-5), the deformability properties of inter-
est are Young's modulus and Poisson's ratio. The reference value is the
mean of available laboratory measurements or is determined from empirical
relationships, and the range is represented by plus and minus one stan-
dard deviation from the mean. These values were determined from data
collected on approximately 300 samples deformed under a standard set of
conditions. Data collected on other samples, which were deformed to in-
vestigate potential environmental effects, are not significantly different
from the data presented here, which include data for strain rate, tempera-
ture, and scale (Price, 1986).

  Other deformability properties required for the analytical tech-
niques used to determine the mechanical response of fractured rock in
Section 7.1.3 are the shear and normal stiffness of joints. The shear
stiffness values and coefficients of friction presented in Table 2-6 are
derived from limited laboratory measurements of tuff (Olsson, 1987).
Uncertainty in these data stems from the fact that the data base is small
and is built on data for artificial saw-cut surfaces. However, the stiff-
ness and coefficient-of-friction values listed fall within the range of
measured values for natural fractures in other rocks (Zongqi, 1983).


2-28
