~ The similarity of the inelastic responses and surface uplifts of
  two different APDs (57 kW/acre for spent fuel and 100 kW/acre
  for commercial high-level waste) show that these responses are
  not sensitive to the selected value of APD. This effect is prob-
  ably attributable to the fact that the two fuel types (spent
  fuel and commercial high-level waste) delivered similar magni-
  tudes of total energy to the rock.

~ The effects of emplacing waste types having different initial
  APDs and decay characteristics in separate parts of the reposi-
  tory were insignificant in the far field.

7.2.2.4.3 Determination of Maximum Temperature as a Function of Distance
	  from a Repository

  Blanford (1985) used a simplified analytic three-dimensional thermal
model of a repository to construct profiles of the maximum temperatures
in the far field. The rock mass was modeled as a homogeneous half space.
The heat-transfer mechanism was assumed to be linear heat conduction.
The thermal properties were representative of the Topopah Spring Member
of Yucca Mountain. Two generic repository configurations were consid-
ered: 1,260 acres of spent fuel at 57 kW/acre and 645 acres of commer-
cial high-level waste at 100 kW/acre. The repository was simulated as a
heat-generating rectangular plate embedded in a semi-infinite half-space
representing the rock mass. Figure 7-3 shows the maximum far-field tem-
peratures of the host rock for spent fuel emplaced at 57 kW/acre. These
analyses provided the following information.

~ The APD is the design parameter that most significantly influ-
  ences the maximum temperatures in the far field.

~ Most of the heat is transferred vertically rather than laterally.
  The volume of rock above the emplacement area reaches and sus-
  tains higher temperatures for longer periods of time than the
  volume of rock peripheral to the emplacement area.

7.2.3 Near-Field Effects

  Section 6.4.4 provides a discussion of the approach being taken to
select the thermal loading of the underground facility. That approach
involves performing thermal and thermomechanical analyses to determine
whether near-field postclosure design criteria are satisfied. The near-
field criteria are tentatively identified in SCP Section 8.3.2.2 as

~ a borehole wall temperature of less than 275~C,
~ a rock-mass temperature at 1 m from the borehole wall of less
  than 200~C,
~ the majority of borehole wall temperatures above boiling for
  more than 300 yr,
~ no unacceptable loads on the container, and
~ no deleterious movements of host rock around underground open-
  ings.

To date, near-field analyses of the proposed underground facility have
largely focused on its behavior during the preclosure period. Many of


7-30
