8.3.6 ISSUE 4.2: NONRADIOLOGICAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

8.3.6.1 Introduction

  The question asked by Issue 4.2 is

	Are the repository design and operating procedures developed to
	ensure nonradiological health and safety of workers adequately
	established for the resolution of the performance issue?

  The complete discussion of the proposed strategy for the resolution
of this issue is presented in SCP Section 8.3.2.4 (nonradiological health
and safety). Readers unfamiliar with the issue resolution strategy for
this issue should review the contents of SCP Section 8.3.2.4 before con-
tinuing.

  Issue 4.2 has been subdivided into three information needs, and the
completed work has been identified under the associated information need.
The completed work is numbered in a manner that corresponds with the in-
formation need numbering system. For example, 4.2.3-1 is the first com-
pleted work identified under the third information need of Issue 4.2.
The information needs are the following:

Information Need 4.2.1 Site and performance information needed for design

  This informaion need consists of (1) compiling the site characteri-
  zation and performance assessment information identified in the other
  information needs under Issue 4.2 into a single integrated list and
  (2) reviewing the proposed site characterization program and per-
  formance assessment program to ensure that the actions required to
  obtain the site characterization information and to provide the
  required performance assessment information are incorporated in
  these programs. Work completed to date has focused on the safety
  aspects of excavation stability. The site characterization and
  performance assessment information needed for design is identified
  in SCP Section 8.3.2.4.1.

Information Need 4.2.2 Potential nonradiological hazards to personnel

  The repository design and operating procedures will be reviewed to
  determine nonradiological hazards to personnel. The risk to person-
  nel from a given nonradiological hazard then will be determined by
  (1) calculating the probability of occurrence of the event identified
  as a personnel hazard, (2) determining the consequences of the event,
  and (3) multiplying the probability of an event occurrence and the
  consequences of the event. If the risk is determined to be unaccept-
  able, a change will be incorporated in the repository design and the
  repository operating procedures. The work completed to date for
  this informaton need has focused primarily on the identification of
  events that could have hazards associated with excavation stability.

Information Need 4.2.3 Design measures for avoiding or mitigating hazards
to personnel


8-78
