2.1.1.2 Horizontal Configuration  

The horizontal waste emplacement configuration uses long boreholes
drilled horizontally into the ribs (sides) of the emplacement drifts, as 
shown in Figure 5. The current concept for waste storage in this 
orientation is shown in Figure 6. The emplacement boreholes are currently 
planned to be 350 feet long, and each will contain 15 waste packages.  The 
holes are lined with a steel liner to facilitate waste emplacement and 
retrieval.  In this configuration, there will be no waste packages stored in 
the first 100 feet of the borehole.  This is done to delay the temperature 
increase in the emplacement drifts and thereby provide a less severe 
environment for retrieval operations.  This 100 foot dimension is referred 
to as standoff.  The standoff dimension is currently being analyzed, and it 
may be shortened as analyses are completed and the trade-off between 
repository cost and emplacement drift temperatures are further compared.  A 
fabricated plug is used after emplacement to provide the shielding required 
to protect personnel working in the drift.   

Figures 7 and 8 illustrate a typical waste emplacement operational 
cycle for the horizontal configuration. With this configuration, each waste 
container is carried on its side on a dolly.  After transfering a single 
waste container and dolly from the surface facility storage vault into the 
transporter cask, the transporter is driven underground to the emplacement 
borehole and positioned at a temporary shielding closure.  The cask is then 
rotated 90~, and the shield doors are opened.  The waste container and dolly 
are pushed into the borehole with the emplacement/retrieval (E/R) mechanism, 
and the E/R mechanism is disconnected from the dolly and retracted back into 
the cask.  The shield doors are then closed, the cask is rotated to its 
transport position, and the transporter is returned to the surface facility.  
The procedure is repeated until the borehole has been filled to design 
capacity.   

Achieving standoff to delay the onset of elevated temperatures in the 
emplacement drift can be accomplished at least three ways.  The first way is 
to use dummy containers or empty dollies that are emplaced in the same 
manner as a conventional waste package.  The second method is to use a 
pusher mechanism employing hydraulic cylinders and coupled tubing to push 
the waste packages to the desired position.  Finally, the last few packages 
emplaced in each borehole could be filled with defense high-level waste 
(DHLW), which has very low thermal output.   

After all waste containers for a given borehole have been emplaced and 
standoff operations have been completed, final borehole closure is 
accomplished by replacing the temporary shielding enclosure with a shield 
plug and borehole cover.  This allows the shielding closure to be used for 
waste emplacement operations at other boreholes.  Closure is accomplished 
using a shielded plug installer transported with a special forklift, as 
shown in Figure 8. 
- 14 -
E-18
