solenoid valves in the control system.  The switch module also contains the 
power supply necessary to operate the solenoids.
   The unit that controls the motor speed also controls the direction and 
speed of the confining pressure intensifier.  The unit can be operated locally 
or automatically by the computer.  Two channels of the valve-switch module are 
used by the computer to control the direction and time that the intensifier is 
actuated.
   An analog temperature controller is used to control band heaters mounted 
on the pressure vessel.  Feedback is obtained from platinum RTD temperature 
sensors, and their values are acquired by the computer for postprocessing.
   Software for the system is stored on a separate floppy disk.  A flow 
diagram of the control and data acquisition program is shown in Fig. 6, and a 
Fortran listing is provided in the Appendix.

E. Results of Preliminary Experiments
  A few room-temperature, uniaxial creep tests were performed primarily to 
check out the operation of the differential stress system and the computer 
control and data acquisition programs.  We selected samples of Grouse Canyon 
welded tuff from G-tunnel that were reputed to be from the same block tested 
by Olsson and Jones5 of Sandia National Laboratories (SNL).  According to the 
SNL data, this tuff should have a uniaxial compressive strength of 180 MPa.  
Consequently, the first test was planned for a differential stress of 100 MPa 
and ambient confining pressure and temperature.  Under these conditions, creep 
deformation lasting at least 6 weeks was anticipated.  However, the sample 
failed catastrophically as soon as the stress was applied.
   Before a second test on this tuff, some uniaxial, constant-displacement-
rate tests were performed to verify the expected failure strength.  At a 
strain rate of about 10-4 s-1, samples with diameters of 1.25 and 2.5 cm 
failed at stresses ranging from 65 to 180 MPa (Fig. 7).  The weakest sample 
contained a fragment of pumice that apparently also acted as a weak zone in 
the 5.4-cm-diam creep test sample.  Consequently, the sample selected for the 
second creep test did not contain any pumice fragments visible at the surface.
   In the second test, a differential stress of 75 MPa was applied and held 
for 5 days (Fig. 8).  The load control system worked well.  Some minor prob-
lems in the data acquisition systems were identified and subsequently cor-
rected.  As can be seen in Fig. 8, there was a very low rate of creep in the 
axial direction.  In the last few days of the test, the average strain rate
11
