Horizontally Layered Rock   223
performed on cylinders with height (h) equal to twice the diameter; and hcrit is the 
minimum height of a cubical specimen of pillar material such that an increase in
the specimen dimension will produce no further reduction in strength. In experi-
ments conducted by Bieniawski (1968), hcrit was 1 m (Figure 3.2.1). Equation 7.4 
applies only for h ~~ hcrit.
  Using square pillars in a room and pillar panel presents a long roof span at the
intersections of rooms. If roof stability is a problem, then long pillars will be 
warranted. Roof stability generally controls the width of rooms, whereas pillar 
strength controls the relative separation of rooms. Roof stability can be critical in 
horizontally layered rock.

7.3 HORIZONTALLY LAYERED ROCK

When horizontally bedded rock lies above the roof, the thinner strata near the 
opening will tend to detach from the main rock mass and form separated beams. 
The stability of such beams is great if there is a horizontal stress and the span-to-
thickness ratio is fairly small. Thin beds just above the opening will tend to fall 
down unless there is immediate support in the form of rock bolts or sets.
  Figure 7.6 shows models of progressive failure of the roof of an opening with 
horizontally bedded rock. First, a relatively thinner beam in the immediate roof
separates from the rock above, flexes downward, and cracks on its upper surface 
at the ends, and on the lower surface in the middle. The end cracks occur first but 
are invisible underground. The inclined stress trajectories in the ends of the beam 
direct the crack propagation diagonally. Collapse of the first beam leaves canti-
levers as abutments for the next beam so each layer above the roof has, in effect, 
a progressively smaller span. Continued failure and fall of beams eventually 
produces a stable, trapezoidal opening, a shape which could be selected for civil 
engineering applications in such rock. The beams are greatly strengthened by 
horizontal stress, up to about one-twentieth of the Euler buckling stress (~2Et2)/
(3L2) in which E is Young's modulus, t is the thickness of the beam, and L is the 
span (Duvall, 1976). Assuming the roof acts like a clamped beam, the maximum 
tensile stress occurs at the top surface near the ends.
with the above constraint that ~h < ~2Et2/60L2. The maximum tensile stress in 
the center, at the bottom of the beam, is half the value given by Equation 7.5. To be 
conservative, ~h can be assumed to be zero.
  Visible deflection of the roof warns that a detached beam may have formed. 
Miners have been known to force a stick into a bow between the roof and floor, 
drawing a string taut between the ends so that any relaxation of the tension in the
