		2.0 SURFACE FACILITIES SITE DESCRIPTION

	The potential sites for the surface repository facilities are located
near the western margin of the NTS, between Yucca Mountain and Fortymile
Wash. Elevations at the Yucca Mountain site vary between about 5,000 feet at
the crest of Yucca Mountain and 3,400 feet in Fortymile Wash. North-south
trending ridges and the north-south trend of Fortymile Wash dominate the local
topography. Photograph 1 shows Fortymile Wash; both Fortymile Wash and Yucca
Mountain are visible in Photograph 2. (All photographs referenced in this
report are contained in Appendix A.)

	All six potential sites are situated on a moderately east-sloping (about
200 feet per mile) alluvial plain (bajada) between an elevation of 3,600 and
3,840 feet (Figure 1). The sites are covered with sparse xerophytic
vegetation typical of a semi-desert environment. Photograph 3 shows the
typical surface appearance. Small, intermittent, flood-type drainage washes
cross the site area from west to east.

	The alluvial slope was built up by coalescing alluvial fans that spread
outward from the base of Yucca Mountain and fill the original,
fault-controlled valleys to a depth of several hundred feet. Exploratory
borings (Figure 1) indicate an alluvial thickness of about 35 feet to more
than 150 feet at the prospective locations for the surface facilities.

	Bedrock in the site area is almost entirely ashflow tuff (fragmental, or
pyroclastic, rock formed from explosive volcanic eruptions) composed of
several thousand feet of multi-flow compound units, generally gray in color.
The upper 1,000 feet of this sequence, the Paintbrush Tuff, is about 13
million years old. Locally, beneath the alluvium, a younger
(11-million-year-old) white or pink tuff (Ranier Mesa Member of Timber
Mountain Tuff) and an unnamed white ash or mudflow deposit have been
penetrated.

	Rock fragments in the overlying alluvium are derived from the exposed
Paintbrush and Timber Mountain tuffs and hence have lithologies representative
of these formations. Deposition was typically by debris flows during flash
flooding. Some of the earlier debris flows may be Tertiary in age (older than
about 2 million years) (Hoover et al, 1981).

	The pedogenic surficial soil generally displays a well-defined horizon
development. The top 1 or 2 feet (A and B horizons) are loose and generally
fine-grained. The underlying alluvium typically is partly to wholly cemented
with a laminated calcite deposit termed "caliche," which often extends to a
depth of several feet. When this soil layer is well cemented with laminated
calcite, it is termed the K horizon (Hoover et al, 1981). An example of the
K horizon in a trench excavation in the site area is shown in Photograph 4. A
thick K horizon is characteristic of mature, very old soils in an arid climate
(Hoover et al, 1981; Swadley et al, 1983). Partial to incipient calcite
cementation, as evidenced by caliche coatings on rock fragments, has been
found in exploratory drill holes throughout the entire thickness of the
alluvial deposits. An example of soil excavated from a surface trench,
incorporating material from the top 6 feet of soil, is shown in Photograph 5.


-3-
 