IV.  B.  Water Behavior

	Before turning the heater on, enough tuff equilibrated water was added 
to each of the water collection cavities to fill the "dead space" below the 
depth gages and activate the first pin of the gage.  This was done so the 
gages would be the most sensitive to the influx of water if it occurred.  By 
the time the heater was turned on, the water ballast had leaked out of WM-3.  
The depth gage responses in WM-1, WM-2, and HH-1 are shown in Figures 21, 22, 
and 23, respectively.  Because of the rate that water was collected in HH-1, 
the details of the gage response are not apparent in Figure 23.  Figures 24 
and 25 provide expanded time views of the gage response.  Increasing voltage 
corresponds to increased water accumulation in the collection cavities.  The 
step-like nature of the voltage increases reflects the discrete pin design of 
the gage.  The sharp decline in the voltage readings occurred when a water 
sample was withdrawn from the cavity.  Each gage was individually built; con-
sequently, each delivers a unique output.

	It is apparent from these figures that water began to collect in each of
the cavities soon after the heater was turned on.  The first water sample was 
removed from the heater hole 7 hr 20 min after turn-on.  As discussed earlier, 
we were unable to quantitatively calibrate the depth gages either pretest or 
while the experiment was in progress.  Considerable posttest effort was 
expended to again try to quantitatively calibrate the gages in light of 
knowing the water collection rates in each of the holes and the individual 
stabilized gage characteristics, but without success.  Consequently, the water 
generation rate in each of the holes was quantitatively determined by dividing 
the amount of water removed from the cavity by the time interval since the 
last withdrawal.  The results are shown in Figure 26.  The data points are 
positioned at the midpoint of the time interval.

	Initially, the water accumulated so rapidly in HH-1 and WM-2 that they 
required around-the-clock attention.  The water generation rate in WM-2 even-
tually slowed to the point that it only required servicing on a daily basis, 
but such was never the case in HH-1.  As mentioned earlier, HH-1 was fitted 
with an automatic sampling system combined with periodic manual sampling, 
which accounts for the depth gage response in Figure 23 after about J-Day = 58 
and the increased intervals in Figure 26.

	Examination of the depth gage responses during cool down in Figures   
21-23 reveals a gradual increase in voltage for HH-1 and WM-2 while WM-1 
remained level.  We attempted to remove water from the HH-1 and WM-2 cavities 
several times during cool down, but without success.  The same behavior was 
noticed during the pretest background determinations with the same results, no 
water.  The behavior was apparently a gage characteristic or a minor response 
to atmospheric conditions in the cavities.

	After the experiment was completed, the leak rate for each of the water 
collection cavities was carefully measured.  The values were 0.97 ml/hr,   
0.49 ml/hr, and 0.26 ml/hr for HH-1, WM-2, and WM-1, respectively.  The cavity 
in WM-3 leaked too rapidly for a unique value to be measured.  The total 
amount of water collected during the experiment is listed in Table 7.  The 
quantities corrected for the cavity leakage are also in Table 7, assuming that
-20-
