100


utilized, with velocity, frequency and amplitude recorded. Cross-hole
methods have been used extensively in rock engineering and the technique
is relatively well developed. Extensive instrument development was
carried out for tests at Stripa (Nelson et al, 1979; Paulsson & King,
1980).

Seismic velocity is influenced by a number of rock mass characteristics
including the density and porosity of the rock material, weathering and
alteration, joint spacing and joint opening. In an unaltered rock mass
of locally uniform lithology (such as a repository formation), velocity
will vary according to joint spacing and opening. Laboratory tests by
Stacy (1976) show that other seismic parameters, such as frequency and
amplitude of both compressional and shear waves, are in many cases more
sensitive indicators of fracture characteristics than velocities. Of
particular interest is the effect of confining stress on various para-
meters, for example shear wave frequency (Figure 5-4). At low
confining stress, shear wave frequency is highly sensitive to stress,
whereas at higher stress levels the frequency is relatively constant
approaching that of the intact rock. Similar results have been reported
by New & West (1980) showing that the stress level at which joints
become "acoustically closed" depends on rock type and the nature of the
joint surface.

The relationship between stress and seismic parameters is very similar
in form to the relationship between stress and permeability presented in
Section 3.1.3.1 (Figure 3-4). In the case of Stacy's laboratory tests
on marble there is a seismic contrast at a stress of about 2 MPa. In
the case of the predicted permeability of basalt, permeability increases
rapidly at stresses less than 3 to 4 MPa. It appears promising, there-
fore, that good correlations between permeability and seismic parameters
can be established for a particular rock type, and that seismic surveys
can be used to estimate disturbed zone permeability. An advantage of
seismic methods is that a relatively large volume of the rock mass can
be sampled.
