Police Department Report 

Nationally the demand for police service in this country 
has grown by almost 50% in the last ten years. Greenville is no 
exception to this pattern. Police Officers are increasingly asked 
to intervene in discipline issues involving young people, family 
conflict and disputes between people who are not related. This 
is in addition to criminal matters handled by the agency. The 
Town consistently has one of the highest crime rates in the 
county. As a comparison Peterborough had 174 index crimes 
while Greenville for the same period had 164 index crimes. 
When one looks at the populations and sizes of the police forces 
(13 for Peterborough and 5 for Greenville) the impact of crime 
on Greenville is quite clear. On a positive note Greenville's 
crime rate has remained fairly constant over the last few years. 

Unfortunately, civil law suits against police organizations 
have increased by over 40% in the last few years. To counter 
this trend agencies nationwide have reacted with increased 
training, better supervision, and stronger policies and 
procedures. Statistics have shown that better educated officers 
are involved in far fewer actions which result in citizens 
complaints than their less schooled counter parts. As a result, 
police departments are in competition with each other for best 
candidates. 

Among other standards, Greenville police officers are 
required to have a minimum of an associate degree from an 
accredited college or university in order to be hired. Of the last 
five officers employed, four have had bachelor's degrees in 
criminal justice. In addition to the educational requirement, 
officers must also complete 16 weeks of advance training. These 
requirements not only assure better police service, but reduce 
the community's liability exposure. 

The 1997 police budget reflects a change in format from 
the 1996 budget. The agency received a grant from the federal 
government for a police officer, known as COPS FAST. This 
grant is for three years with a total award of $75,000. 
Approximately $25,000 a year is received by the town. The 



100 
