CPR and choking courses to all of our residents. Statistics show 
that most "Saves" in emergency situations happen in the first 
five minutes after the event. If ordinary citizens have enough 
information or training, not to panic and to be able to provide 
basic life support until a trained EMT arrives, the patient has 
the highest chance of survival. 

In our region there is a strong move towards charging for 
services and SVAS is determined to do what is best for our 
community. We had a call volume in 1996 of 338. This 
represented 370 patients. 44 calls were from Temple, 175 from 
New Ipswich, and 147 from Greenville. Our community 
includes approximately 7000 people and until now ambulance 
service has been provided at a cost of $10.33 per person. We 
currently have two ambulances, fully outfitted with all modern 
requirements for emergency service. We have 26 fully trained 
EMTs, which includes 7 EMT Intermediates and 1 Paramedic. 
No person either on the Board or serving on calls is paid, nor are 
they compensated for personal expenses. Our group has been 
happy and proud to donate these services to our community. 
However medical care and expenses are changing drastically and 
many feel we need to change the way Emergency care is funded. 

To this end, we are participating in studies on charging 
and networking with our neighboring services to gather as much 
information as possible. We hope to meet the changing needs 
both of the community we serve and the changing requirements 
of Emergency care. 

SVAS has a long history of providing excellent emergency 
care to all three towns and we hope to increase the cooperation 
of our towns, coordinate with all First Responders Groups to 
guarantee the best possible care for our citizens at the fairest 
cost. 

We would like to thank the many people who responded 
to our needs and supported us throughout the year. We look 
forward to a safe and healthy 1997. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Robyn Hewetson 
Chairman of the Board SVAS 



103 
