1996 SOUHEGAN VALLEY AMBULANCE 

1996 has been a year of progress and improvement, and 
also one in which we have realized how many new challenges 
are being presented to the survival of volunteer organizations 
such as ourselves. As we move towards the turn of the century 
ever more advanced technologies are devised for emergency 
services and these advances are bought at ever higher and 
higher costs. At the start of the year we changed over 
communications systems and are now firmly established with 
the Hillsborough County Sheriffs Office. 

SVAS purchased 5 Defibrillators this year. We used as 
our model the Gold Cross Ambulance Service study from the 
Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. According to their study 
Police Cruisers all over the nation tend to arrive at the scene 
before the ambulance, Since to be of any use at all a difib has to 
be utilized within the first six minutes, it is vital that a qualified 
first responder, properly equipped, be on the scene as fast as 
possible. In order to meet these criteria in our particular 
geography, we bought three portable semi-automatic Vivalinks 
to be placed in each of the towns we serve. In both New 
Ipswich and Greenville, they are carried in the Police Cruisers, 
thereby guaranteeing the fastest possible response time. In 
Temple, where the cruiser is not always in town, the defib is 
stored at the fire station and any one of the First Responders on 
duty can retrieve it and get to the scene well in advance of the 
Ambulance itself. 

We also have provided two fully equipped Physiocontrol 
difibs for the back of the ambulances. These have the capacity 
to monitor cardiac function and to download information into 
Hospital Systems if required. We also purchased a Pulsoximeter 
for each ambulance. We have ten OSHA approved Jumpsuits for 
our attendants and hope in the coming year to equip every 
volunteer with the full outfit required. 

We held several training courses in 1996, including Basic 
EMT course, a Driving Course, Transition Recertification, 
Defibrillator Course, Basic CPR course and the Kinetics of 
Trauma. It is our intention in the coming year to offer basic 



102 
