Article 11. Motion made by Mr, Hartley and seconded by Mr. 
deWinter and voted in the affirmative to raise and appropriate 
the sum of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) for deposit into the 
Fire Station Repair Expendable Trust. 

Article 12. Motion made by Mrs. Pelletier and seconded 
by Kathleen Valliere and amended by Mr. Charles Buttrick, and 
seconded by Mrs. Pelletier and voted as amended to raise and 
appropriate the sum of Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000) for 
deposit into the 125th Anniversary Expendable Trust. 

Article 13. Motion made by Mrs. Gauvin -Lizotte and 
seconded by Mrs. Marie Holbein and voted in the affirmative by 
a standing vote of (45 yes, 33 no), as amended by motion made 
by Mrs. Gauvin-Lizotte and seconded by Mrs, Holbein to raise 
and appropriate the sum of Two Thousand Nine Hundred 
Dollars ($2,900) of which $900 will come from the Myrtle Marsh 
Village Improvement Fund, for the purpose of planting four (4) 
street trees, resetting the curbing, and installing a brick border 
along the sidewalk on the northern side of the intersection of 
Hubbard Hill Road and Main Street. 

Article 14. Motion made by Mrs. Holbein and seconded 
by Kathleen Washburn and amended by Marshall Buttrick and 
seconded by Mrs. Washburn. A motion was made and voted in 
the affirmative to table this article as amended by Mr. Eaton and 
seconded by Thomas Falter to sell for less than Five Thousand 
Dollars ($5,000) the Edmond Block (Acker Property) said sum to 
be expended on a broker's commission to an investor who, 
under contract, would agree to rehabilitate the property with 
covenants restricting the use of the building to business on the 
first floor and basement levels, with only one apartment on the 
upper floor levels and ensuring the preservation of the 
traditional New England character of the building , specifically 
that the building remain wooden clapboard sided with the front 
facade flush board siding and ornate window casings left intact, 
the balcony and porch be restored according to historic 



16 
