INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT 
To the Board of Selectmen 
Town of Greenville, New Hampshire 

We have audited the accompanying general purpose financial statements of the 
Town of Greenville, New Hampshire, as of and for the year ended December 31, 
1995, as listed in the table of contents. These financial statements are the 
responsibility of the Town's management. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. 

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards and Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller 
General of the United States, and the provisions of Office of Management and 
Budget (OMB) Circular A-1 28, "Audits of State and Local Governments." Those 
standards and OMB Circular A-1 28 require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of 
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence 
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the general purpose financial 
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the 
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 

The Town does not maintain a record of its general fixed assets. Therefore, a 
statement of general fixed assets, required by generally accepted accounting 
principles, is not included in the financial statements. 

The Town has recognized property tax revenues on the accrual basis in the 
General Fund, which is not in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles. Generally accepted accounting principles require recognition of 
property taxes on the modified accrual basis. Town officials believe that 
application of this accounting principle would give a misleading impression of the.- 
Town's ability to meet its current and future obligations. 

In our opinion, except for the effects of the items described in the third and fourth'' 
paragraphs, the general purpose financial statements referred to above present 
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Town of Greenville, 
New Hampshire, as of December 31 , 1 995, and the results of its operations for 
the year then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles 

Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the general 
purpose financial statements of the Town of Greenville, New Hampshire, taken 
as a whole. The accompanying schedules located on pages 19 and 20 are 
presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of the 
general purpose financial statements. The information in those schedules has 
been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the general 
purpose financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly presented in all 
material respects, in relation to the genera! purpose financial statements taken 
as a whole. 



Company P.G.
