I. INTRODUCTION

  This report details the technical contributions of Los Alamos National
Laboratory to the Nevada Nuclear Waste Storage Investigations (NNWSI) project
since the time of its inception in FY 1977 (as the NTS Terminal Waste Storage
project) until March of 1982. The NNWSI project is managed by the Nevada
Operations Office of the Department of Energy. Efforts have been devoted
primarily to resolving geochemistry issues pertinent to siting a nuclear waste
repository in tuff at the Nevada Test Site (NTS).
  The Los Alamos National Laboratory studies of the sorptive behavior of
tuff and transport of radionuclides through tuff have been partly generic in
nature (to understand the sorptive behavior of tuff as a function of many
variables) and partly site specific (to obtain data for a possible repository
site in tuff). It is necessary to have an understanding of the mechanisms of
radionuclide transport and retardation in tuff, as well as to have a data base
of sorptive behavior, to perform the required safety assessment dealing with
possible releases from a repository in tuff. Previous reports in this series
are Refs. 1, 2, and 3.
  When the work was initiated, the only appropriate tuff samples for this
study were from drill hole (later well) J-13 (Ref. 4) in western Jackass Flats
at the NTS. When the NNWSI identified Yucca Mountain as a possible repository
location and undertook an exploratory drilling program, samples from additional
drill holes became available.
  Tuffaceous groundwater used in these studies has been obtained from well
J-13 in Jackass Flats except for studies of the Yucca Mountain groundwaters
themselves. To better simulate water in contact with the rocks under investi-
gation, the water from well J-13 is pretreated with the particular rock of
interest. Analyses of the water before and after such treatment have indicated
only minor changes in composition.
  Perhaps a more critical problem is simulation of the redox conditions
that exist in the actual rock/groundwater systems. If the underground conditions
are reducing, as is postulated for many deep geologic systems, then the sorptive
behavior of elements such as technetium, uranium, neptunium, and plutonium
will be different from that under the normal, mildly oxidizing conditions in
air. In their lower oxidation states, these elements are generally more insolu-
ble or sorb better on geologic media and, consequently, should be retarded
more than in the higher states. However, at the present time, there is no


17
