of water of hydration varies from 4 to 10. Chen's method predicts no effect
for log10 K, but the modified Tardy and Garrels' method and Nriagu's method
predict opposite effects.

	e. Discussion of Estimated Data. The estimated values of ~G~f for the
three zeolites (clinoptilolite, heulandite, and mordenite) are in relatively
good agreement. There is less than 1% difference between the results from the
modified Tardy and Garrel's method, Nriagu's method, and Chen's method
(Table LXVIII). In most cases, Nriagu's and Chen's methods agree within 0.1%.
However, in terms of log10 K for the aqueous reaction, large relative differences
exist (Table LXIX). The only gauges of accuracy for these estimates are the
comparisons for analcime, wairakite, and laumontite. Even these comparisons
may not carry much weight because the silicon/aluminum ratio and water of
hydration for clinoptilolite, heulandite, and mordenite are generally quite
different than for analcime, wairakite, and laumontite. Any inherent errors
in the methods that are associated with these variables could lead to inaccurate
estimates.
	Another problem with these methods is that they estimate the same free
energy for polymorphs. Wairakite and laumontite have different structures, as
well as having a different number of waters of hydration.83 The only difference
in the ~G~f or log10 K estimates, however, is from the water of hydration.
The difference in the experimental values of log10 K of wairakite and laumontite
is ~4; Chen's method shows no difference in the estimates of the two values,
and Nriagu's method shows only ~0.5. Another method of estimating ~G~f,
developed by Slaughter, can account for the structure of the mineral, but at
the expense of considerable complexity in the calculations.93-95
	4. Summary and Conclusions. A preliminary search has been conducted for
free-energy data at 25~C for some of the mineral phases found during exploratory
drilling at or near Yucca Mountain. Data were found for silica (quartz,
cristobalite, and amorphous silica), alkali feldspars, some clays, and one
zeolite (analcime). Data were estimated for three other zeolites (clinoptilo-
lite, heulandite, and mordenite).
	When data are available from the SUPCRT compilation,87 they should be
used because they provide a reliable and internally consistent data set.
However, there are no data for any clays of interest in SUPCRT and for only
one zeolite; resorting to estimation techniques to obtain data for three
zeolites adds uncertainty to those data. Differences in log10 K for aqueous


223
