6
percents of major minerals by comparing diagnostic peak intensities with 
appropriate standards.

Step 3. Calculate modal analyses for the two samples of Topopah Spring
tuff by apportioning measured values of weight percent oxides among the 
phases detected by XRD and petrographic examination.

Step 4. Use the XRD data and modal mineralogies obtained in steps 2-3
to obtain: (1) X-ray absorption coefficients for the "pure" constituent 
minerals, and (2) "average" X-ray absorption coefficients for the bulk 
samples.

Step 5. Use calculated "pure" mineral peak intensities to prepare
determinative curves (peak intensity vs. weight percent of a mineral)
for tuffs with various "average" X-ray absorption coefficients.

Step 6. Using the determinative curves developed in step 5, the XRD
data obtained in step 2, and petrographic data, determine approximate
mineral percentages for the samples that were not analyzed chemically
[viz., Topopah Spring tuff (non-lithophysal zone), Calico Hills tuff,
and Bullfrog tuff].

As discussed in the Appendix, it is difficult to assign appropriate
uncertainties to the weight percents of minerals derived from X-ray
absorption calibration curves.  For smectite and alkali feldspar, the
estimated error is believed to be approximately 6-10% when the phase is 
abundant (~50 modal percent), but much greater, approximately 33%, when 
the phase is present in only minor amounts (~3 modal percent).  For 
reasons explained in the report, estimated errors in calculated weight 
percents of zeolites are believed to be somewhat larger than corre-
sponding values for smectite and alkali feldspar.

3.1.3 Major Results

1. Topopah Spring tuff from Busted Butte is similar texturally to the
samples of Topopah Spring tuff from borehole USWG1, but the outcrop
material and core material differ somewhat mineralogically.  For
example, the two core samples were found to have lower
quartz/cristobalite ratios. More importantly, however, the core
samples contain significant quantities of smectite (approximately 10%
by weight), whereas the outcrop material from Busted Butte contains
only trace amounts of smectite.

2. No major differences in bulk or clay mineralogy were detected among
the five size fractions of Busted Butte outcrop material. In fact, the
samples exhibited only one minor mineralogic variation: an apparent
decrease in quartz and a concomitant increase in alkali feldspar with
decreasing mesh size.

3.2 GROUNDWATER

Fifteen liters (4 gal) of J-13 well water were received from the U.S.
