THE CHEMICAL ENVIRONMENT OF PITCHBLENDE		523


  Although early work had been done on the composition of uranium ions
most of the recent work has been carried on by various Atomic Energy
Commission research projects. Pisani (25) did the early work on the car-
bonate complexes and Wilder (31) has done recent work on the composition
of the uranyl carbonate complex. Pascal (27) investigated the stability of
uranium hydrophosphate and uranium pyrophosphate. Kunin (20) de-
termined the stability of the uranyl ion as a function of pH. Harned (11)
worked on mixtures of uranium IV and uranium VI.
  Most of the stability investigations to date are of little use to the geol-
ogist. This results because concentrations of uranium ions above neutral-
ization amounts have not been obtained and the stability of the uranium
ions at elevated temperatures have not been investigated.
  Since the writing of this report Garrels (8) has published additional data
on the thermodynamic relations of uranium oxides and Gruner (9) has
published the results of his recent geochemical experiments.
  Acknowledgments.-~The writer is greatly indebted to Professor Paul F.
Kerr, Department of Geology, Columbia University, for his guidance and
constructive criticism on the overall program. Professor T. Ivan Taylor,
Department of Chemistry, Columbia University, supervised the chemical
program and gave much assistance in chemical procedure and construction
of experimental apparatus. William Croft of Columbia University made
the determinations of crystallite size. The Raw Materials Branch of the
Atomic Energy Commission provided the funds for the research, and
published a preliminary paper as RME-~3110 (Pt. 1) 1955.

		METHODS OF URANIUM ANALYSES

  Two analytical procedures were used for the determination of uranium
in solution, each depending on the concentration of the sample. The Jones
reductor with a potassium permanganate titration was used for the analyses
of solutions with a uranium concentration of 10-3 M or greater. Solutions
with uranium concentrations between 10-4 M and 10-6 M were analyzed by
colorimetric methods. All precipitates were analyzed by x-ray diffraction
methods.
  The Jones Reductor Method.-~This method of analysis depends upon the
quantitative oxidation-reduction of uranium. In the Jones reductor,
uranium is quantitatively reduced to uranium (IV) and uranium (III),
then aerated completely to uranium (IV), and finally titrated to uranium
(VI) by means of a suitable oxidant.
  The Jones reductor used in these experiments was a 6-inch column of
amalgamated zinc in a cylindrical reduction tube. Solutions of uranium,
in 4N sulfuric acid, were allowed to pass through the zinc column at a rate
of 15 ml per minute. The column was then washed thoroughly with 4N
sulfuric acid and finally by water. The resulting mixture of uranium (IV)
and (III) was aerated by rapid agitation with a magnetic stirrer to insure
oxidation of red uranium (III) to green uranium (IV). Quadravalent
uranium is stable in the presence of air for a few hours but over a period of
days is completely oxidized to uranium (IV). The solution of uranium
