been used successfully in many fields to model particulate systems.44-62
These are just a few of the numerous references to the population balance.
  The application of the population balance to nuclear waste colloids,
though new, is a straightforward extension of this well-established modeling
technique. The population balance and its applications are discussed in the
following sections.
  3. Population Balance. In 1962 and 1964, Randolph42 and Hulburt and
Katz43 derived the general form of the population balance. These very formal
and complete derivations of the population balance in the early 1960s set the
foundation for the subsequent mathematical analysis of many particulate
system studies ranging in fields from engineering to biology. The population
balance is a well-established transport equation that is commonly used to
model systems of countable entities.42-62 Randolph and Larson45 in their
book make reference to the diverse and numerous applications of the popula-
tion balance. Included are processes such as crystallization, grinding, air
pollution, and biological systems just to name a few. The population balance
is an important addition to the common mass transport and energy transport
equations.
  Using a size distribution, the population balance permits a full
treatment of the colloid problem from the birth of colloids to their capture
on the surrounding matrix as well as modeling the gradual effects of colloid
growth or dissolution. Radioactive decay of specific nuclides within the
colloids is treated by assigning within the population balance a concen-
tration property axis to each species we wish to track. The addition of
these property axes allows correct treatment of the decay chain problem with
full accounting of the daughter product concentrations. Also, we can model
the adsorption of multiple nuclides on the same colloid (heterogeneous
colloids).
  Randolph and Larson45 discuss in detail an example of using the
concentration property axis within in the population balance. For each
nuclide, there is a separate concentration property axis that defines the
number of colloids (at a point in time/space and at a size) that have a
particular concentration of, for example, plutonium. Integrating over the
plutonium property axis and the size axis gives the amount of colloidal
plutonium at a point in time/space.


60
