  The pumping test was set up in a similar manner to the test in Well
UE-25b#1.5 A Lynes Inflata-Plug was first set in the Well at ~835 m in depth
and a Lynes Pip Packer at ~750 m. Groundwater could then be pumped from
between these two packers to the surface for analysis. The pump was set at
a 610-m depth, much deeper than normal for pumping wells. This depth was
chosen so that the height of the water column inside the casing at the pump
locations would be large, thus eliminating any possibility of pump-cavitation
and reducing the diffusion of air down through the column of water to the
water being pumped out of the packed-off zone. In addition, 20 ~ of diffu-
sion pump oil were added to the water column over the pump to act as a
floating air seal.
  During the pumping process, a portion of the well's total flow was
continuously directed through a 1-in. Tygon hose into the mobile laboratory
at the well site. There the water flow could be directed into the anaerobic
filtration equipment and/or through the electrode cell, where measurements of
oxygen, pH, oxidation-reduction (Eh) potential, conductance, and sulfide
could be made without exposing the water to the atmosphere.
  The anaerobic filtration unit5 consists of two Nuclepore 1-~ stainless
steel filtration units, appropriate stainless steel valves and tubing, and
1-~ Pyrex receiver vessels with pressure stopcocks. The filtration unit is
mounted on wheels so that the unit is portable and can be taken out of our
large mobile laboratory to any well site. Two filtration units are provided
in series so that even very dirty water can be filtered in stages, ending
with a 0.05-~m Nuclepore membrane. In the pumping of Well USW H-6, only the
top filtration unit with a 0.05-~m Nuclepore membrane was used. The 1-~
Pyrex containers were kept full of filtered water (unexposed to air) to be
used for reference water and possible future analyses for concentration of
14C, carbon-dioxide, and gas content and composition. In addition, daily
samples were filtered in air through a 0.05-~m Nuclepore membrane, acidified
with 100 ~~ of Ultrex nitric acid and sent in Nalgene bottles to Los Alamos
for cation analyses.
  The anion concentration of the groundwater usually was determined twice
a day, by using a Dionex Model 16 Ion Chromatograph in the mobile laboratory
at the well site. This instrument proved to be extremely durable and depend-
able for such a field operation. Samples of anaerobically filtered water,
water taken directly from the well, and water exiting the mobile laboratory


14
