consisted of sampling the thin soil overlying the fractured tuff at four
sites on the crest of Yucca Mountain and at one site at the mouth of Coyote
Wash. These soil samples were analyzed for chloride concentrations. The low
chloride contents and the lack of increased chloride contents adjacent to the
underlying tuff indicate well-drained soils. Presumably, rainfall drains
into the fractured tuff. The second type of survey involved measurements of
the electromagnetic conductivity of the 10 to 20 m of tuff closest to the
surface at two sites on the crest of Yucca Mountain and at three sites
adjacent to Coyote Wash. Measurements at 30~ increments about the surveyed
points showed that the tuff is electrically anisotropic in the direction of
fracturing. A potential site for collecting fractured tuff samples for 36Cl
measurements was identified at the mouth of Coyote Wash from these electro-
magnetic survey results. The site was determined to contain no archeological
artifacts and no endangered plant or animal species. A backhoe and a pneu-
matic hammer were used to collect samples to a depth of 0.8 m, when heavy
rains forced the termination of sampling at this location. The excavation
was backfilled as well as the muddy conditions would permit, to prevent the
hole from becoming a local recharge point.

Hydrothermal Geochemistry

  A thermodynamic model has been constructed for analcime as a start to
our understanding the controls on its stability. Modeling analcime stability
leads to insights about the parameters that affect the stability of other
zeolites and the probable relative importance of kinetics versus chemical
equilibrium.
  The thermodynamics of analcime are directly important because analcime
is a probable breakdown product of clinoptilolite. The thermodynamics of
analcime as well as those of clinoptilolite must, therefore, be known before
the possible reaction of clinoptilolite to analcime phases can be modeled.
The model for analcime can also be used to clarify the present chemical
conditions in portions of Yucca Mountain where analcime is present and to
examine the possibility that these portions of the mountain may have been
heated to higher temperatures in the past.
  The model indicates that the analcimes present in Yucca Mountain
crystallized under conditions where the silica activity was only slightly
below that in equilibrium with cristobalite. The fact that they presently


4
