water percolating through the glassy rock immediately below the candidate 
host rock.  In particular, differences in style and intensity of alteration 
can be studied in relation to fracture abundance and its influence on the 
movement of water through the host rock.

C. Sulfur Analyses within the Topopah Spring Member
The report on the use of hot spring systems as natural analogues to a
repository in tuff was completed this quarter (Section II.C.2). Apparent 
increases in permeability were noted at several localities, and evidence for 
the development of acid sulfate systems in some springs was seen. To 
determine the possibility for development of an acid sulfate system in the 
unsaturated zone in Yucca Mountain, we have analyzed ten samples of Topopah 
Spring tuff from drill holes USW GU-3 and G-4 for total sulfur (using x-ray 
fluorescence). Total sulfur in the samples ranged from 46 to 137 ppm with a 
mean value of 66 ppm. Work next quarter will place limits and bounds on the 
total amount of H2SO4 that can be produced in the repository environment, 
assuming that all of the sulfur is present as sulfide.

D. Mineralogy/Petrology along Transport Pathways away from the Host Rock
Petrologic data on rock types both within and away from the repository
block are needed to evaluate the retardation along transport pathways, since 
the degree of retardation is in part a function of rock type. During this 
quarter, x-ray diffraction studies of samples from drill holes USW WT-1, 
WT-2, and Well J-12 were completed to add to our understanding of the diverse 
vitric, devitrified, and zeolitized rock zones within the exploration block 
at Yucca Mountain and along potential pathways away from the exploration 
block. These data will be summarized in a forthcoming report, but some of 
the preliminary findings can be summarized here. Drill hole USW WT-2 is 
within the southeastern margin of the exploration block at a location between 
one drill hole where the Calico Hills tuff is thoroughly zeolitized (USW H-4) 
and another drill hole where the Calico Hills tuff is nonzeolitized (USW 
GU-3). Samples from drill hole USW WT-2 bridge the gap between these two 
very different drill holes: the zeolitized Calico section in drill hole 
USW WT-2 contains about 40 m of clinoptilolite and is at an appropriate 
elevation to be intermediate between Well USW H-4 (about 100 m of clinoptilo-
lite) and USW H-3 (no clinoptilolite in this interval). These new data will
82
