10 LAKE BONNEVILLE.
bare of all vegetation and are usually margined by a growth of salt-loving
shrubs and grasses. A single southern bush bears leaves of deep green, but
with this exception the desert plants are grey, like the desert soil. These,
and the persistent haze whose grey veil deadens all the landscape, weary
the eye with their monotony, so that the vivid green marking the distant
spring is welcome for its own sake as well as for the promise of refreshment
to the thirsty traveler.
  The causes of this arid climate lie in the general circulation of the
atmosphere, in the currents of the Pacific Ocean, and in the configuration
of the land. There is a slow aerial drift from west to east, so that the air
coming to the Basin has previously traversed a portion of the Pacific, to
which its temperature and humidity have become adjusted. Off the west
coast of the United States there is a southward current, believed to be the
chief branch of the Kuro Siwa. Prof. George Davidson1 estimates its width
at about 300 miles, and finds that its temperature rises with southward
advance only one degree Fahrenheit for each degree of latitude. Being
derived from a north-moving current, it reaches our coast with a tempera-
ture higher than that normal to the latitude, while at the south its tempera-
ture is below the normal. As pointed out by Dutton,2 the air passing from
it to the land at the north is cooled by the land and precipitates moisture,
while the similar air-current at the south is warmed by the land and con-
verted to a drying wind. The Great Basin falls within the influence of the
drying wind, its southern part being more affected than its northern. At the
extreme south and the extreme north the mountains between the ocean and
the Basin do not greatly interfere with the eastward flow of air, but between
latitudes 35~ and 41~ the Sierra Nevada forms a continuous wall, rarely less
than ten thousand feet high. In rising to pass this obstruction the air loses
much of its stored moisture, especially in winter, and it descends to the Basin
with diminished humidity. The Basin is further influenced by deviations of
the air-currents from the eastward direction, and its southern part falls in
summer within the zone of calms theoretically due to a descending current
at the margin of the northern trade-wind; but observational data are too
meager for the discussion of these factors.
1Letter to the writer.
2Cause of the Arid Climate of the western portion of the U. S., Capt. C. E. Dutton: Am. Jour.
Sci., 3d ser., vol. 22, p. 249.
