Simulation of the Climate of 18 ka BP			167


these structures, however, does not necessarily imply summer sand movement, because
winter wind patterns persist into March and April, when snow cover is reduced.

  In the central Great Plains strong Late Wisconsin winds are recorded by the great
accumulations of well-dated Peoria Loess not only east of the main outwash streams
(Missouri, Mississippi, Illinois, Wabash, etc.) but also over much of Nebraska and Kansas,
where the source areas must have been kept bare of vegetation not by the flooding of glacial
meltwaters but by the strength and persistence of the winds. Dune patterns and blowouts
throughout this area clearly indicate northwesterly winds, and the effectiveness of the wind
action is even recorded in the alignment of small tributary streams (Russell, 1929; White,
1961). In the extensive areas where the Cretaceous Pierre Shale outcrops west of the glacial
border in North Dakota, clay flakes or pellets are blown today by strong northwest winds in
the winter, but subsequent water-washing disaggregates and redistributes the clay so that
actual clay dunes do not accumulate (Crandell, 1958). Such wind erosion occurs particularly
after prairie fires (White, 1961). Although this process is clearly active today, wind erosion
is believed to have been even more effective in the Pleistocene. Eolian deposits in North
Dakota include units dated to the Late Wisconsin (Clayton et al., 1980), and some may be
older, being penetrated by ice-wedge polygons presumably of Late Wisconsin age (J.
Bluemle, pers. com. 1981).

  The largest area of old sand dunes in the Great Plains is the Nebraska Sandhills, an area
of about 400 ~ 200 km. The dune forms indicate that the dominant direction of winds
strong enough to move sand was from the northwest (Warren, 1976), and it has been
postulated that the dune forms so closely resemble those of the North African desert that
the area must have been virtually free of vegetation during the time of dune formation
(Smith, 1965).

  The age of the dune formation in the Nebraska Sandhills is debated (Wright et al., 1985).
The sandhills are bordered on the southeast by well-dated Late Wisconsin loess of
Nebraska and Kansas, which decreases in thickness and grain size to the southeast (Fig. 14).
These relations imply that the sand dunes are also of glacial age. Surficial organic sediments
in interdune depressions at three localities near the northern and western edges of the
sandhills yielded radiocarbon dates of 12-9 ka BP and thus support the interpretation that
the dunes are Late Wisconsin in age. A pollen diagram for the 13 m of lake sediment at one
of these localities provides no evidence that massive sand dunes were forming in the area at
that time -~ only that the lake was shallow and marshy prior to about 3700 BP. On the other
hand, organic layers buried by many meters of dune sand along the Dismal River valley in
the center of the sandhills have dates primarily in the range of 3-5 ka BP (Ahlbrandt et al.,
1983). It is possible that some sand movement near the Dismal River in the Holocene
accounts for the burial.

  Dunes now stabilized on the south side of the Arkansas River in Arkansas were also
formed by northwesterly winds, as is clear not only from their form but also from their
position south of the sandy alluvium that served as their source (Melton, 1940). Although
these dunes are undated, the occurrence is important because the modern blowouts in the
area indicate southwesterly winds. Thus if the stabilized dunes are Late Wisconsin in age
the mean winter position of the polar front must have been south of the Arkansas River.

  Northwest winds for 18,000 years ago are also clearly indicated in northwestern Illinois by
the alignment of paha, which are loess dunes derived from outwash along the Mississippi
