PRE-PLEISTOCENE PALEOCLIMATES           97
3. For snapshot simulations of, e.g., 50 or 100 m.y. ago, the paleogeogra-
phy and SST boundary conditions and the paleoclimatic data used for com-
parison with the simulated results are averaged over a 1- to 5-m.y. period.  
Therefore, the distribution of solar radiation with latitude and season should 
be an average calculated over many cycles of orbital periodicities.

   5.4.5.  Atmospheric Aerosol Content.  It is well known from both observa-
tions and climate modeling (Toon and Pollack, 1980; Turco et al., 1982) that 
atmospheric aerosols can affect climate.  This is because they scatter and 
absorb shortwave radiation and absorb and emit infrared radiation (IR) 
(Prospero et al., 1983).  Observations of surface temperature anomalies 
following major volcanic eruptions and the results of climate modeling 
indicate that stratospheric aerosols increase the temperature in the lower 
stratosphere and reduce surface temperature.  This is because the effect due 
to the increase in planetary albedo is greater than that due to the absorption 
and emission of IR (Pollack et al., 1976).
   Stratospheric aerosol content is closely related to one source, explosive 
volcanic eruptions that periodically inject silicate dust particles and sulfur 
gases (H2S, SO2) into the stratosphere.  The sulfur gases are converted 
through photochemical reactions to sulfuric acid particles.  After major 
eruptions, stratospheric aerosols decline to background levels after 1-2 yr 
(Castleman et al., 1974).  While the mean global atmospheric optical depth 
(~) due to aerosol is in the range 0.05 to 0.2 (Deirmendjian, 1971; Pollack et 
al., 1976), and major eruptions can increase this to 0.4-0.5 for several 
months, the mean volcanic contribution over the last few centuries to total 
atmospheric aerosol ~ has been ~0.02, constituting about 80% of the total 
stratospheric aerosol ~ (Pollack et al., 1976).  Therefore, periods of en-
hanced volcanic activity in the geological past could have had climatic effects 
through increased ~.  Approximate estimates of the variation of strato-
spheric aerosol content can be made, given a knowledge of changes in the 
global rate of volcanism through time.  This could be achieved by the follow-
ing methods.

   1. Major volcanic episodes (lasting maybe a few million years) can be 
recognized in the geologic record from widespread and thick ash horizons 
(Axelrod, 1981).  However, there is insufficient data to document changes 
in the global rate of volcanism with any confidence.
   2. The global average ocean floor spreading rate slowly varies over tens of 
millions of years.  This must affect mean rates of volcanism at midocean 
ridges and in island arcs and Andean mountain belts along destructive plate 
margins.  Hays and Pitman (1973) argued that the mean ocean floor spread-
ing rate between 110 and 85 m.y. ago was double the present value [although
