FRESHENING OF LAKES BY DESICCATION.	223


		SECTION 3.-~DESICCATION PRODUCTS.

  During the centuries that witnessed the deposition of the vast amount
of calcareous tufa now found in the Lahontan basin, other salts were
contributed to the lake in varying proportions. Upon the evaporation of
the waters these more soluble salts were eventually deposited, and, as the
lake never overflowed, they must still be retained in the basin.
  Instances of the deposition of salts by the evaporation of inclosed
lakes are common, and may be illustrated by many examples in the Great
Basin. The salt fields in Osobb Valley; the saline deposits left by the
evaporation of the Middle Lake in Surprise Valley, California, in 1872;
and by the broad salt field now covering the desiccated basin of Sevier
Lake in Utah, are all cases in point.
  In the Lahontan basin, deposits of this character, which have resulted
directly from the evaporation of the former lake are nowhere to be found.
The accumulations of common salt, sulphate of soda, etc., occurring in
considerable quantities at certain localities, have in all cases been deposited
since the evaporation of the former lake. In some instances these accumu-
lations are due to the leaching of saline clays, and the evaporation of
the resultant brine in restricted areas, as in the case of the salt fields in
Alkali Valley; at other times saline deposits of considerable thickness
have resulted from the evaporation of spring waters. Over very large
areas the Lahontan beds are frequently whitened with a saline efflorescence,
which also owes its accumulation to secondary causes, as will be described
a few pages in advance.
  Wherever the Lahontan sediments have been examined they have
been found more or less highly charged with salts of the same character as
those that were most common in the waters of the former lake. The total
quantity of saline matter thus imprisoned is certainly very great, and is
assumed to represent the more soluble substances contributed to Lake
Lahontan.
