154	GEOLOGICAL HISTORY OF LAKE LAHONTAN.


atmosphere at such times. Dust-storms are common on the deserts during
the arid season, and impart to the atmosphere a peculiar haziness that lasts
for days and perhaps weeks after the storms have subsided. Whirl-winds
supply a characteristic feature in the atmospheric phenomena of the Far
West especially during calm weather, as noted already, and frequently form
hollow dust-columns two or three thousand feet or even more in height,
which may many times be seen in considerable numbers moving here and
there over the valleys. The loose material thus swept about at the caprice
of the winds tends to accumulate on certain areas and forms dunes or drifts
that at times cover many square miles of surface. During its journey
across the country the material which finds a resting place in the dunes
becomes assorted with reference to size and weight, so that the resulting
sand-drifts are usually homogeneous in their composition, but are character-
ized by extreme irregularity of structure when seen in section. In the
Lahontan basin the suba~~~rial deposits are usually composed of fine, sharp
quartz sand, but in some instances small drifts are principally formed of the
cases of ostracoid crustaceans.
  A large area buried beneath sand dunes of post-Lahontan date occurs
a few miles north of Winnemucca and extends westward from the lower
part of Little Humboldt Valley to the desert between Black Butte and the
Do~~a Schee Hills. This belt of drifting sand is about forty miles long from
east to west by eight or ten miles in width. The drifts are fully seventy-five
feet thick and present their steeper slopes to the eastward, thus indicating the
direction in which the whole vast field of sand is slowly travelling. No
measurements of the rate at which these drifts advance has been made, but
their progress is evidently quite rapid, as it has necessitated a number of
changes in the roads in the southern part of Little Humboldt Valley during
the past few years. In some places in the same region the telegraph-poles
have been buried so deeply that they required to be spliced in order to
keep the wires above the crests of the dunes. The sand is here of a light
creamy-yellow color, and forms beautifully curved ridges and waves that
are covered with fret-work of wind-ripples, and frequently marked in the
most curious manner by the foot-prints of animals, thus forming strange
hieroglyphics that are sometimes difficult to translate.
