108	GEOLOGICAL HISTORY OF LAKE LAHONTAN.


crosses it, but maintains a nearly horizontal crest for at least a third of the
way to the point where the river has cut through; it then falls off with an
abrupt descent to a level six or eight feet lower, the crest of the structure
at the same time becoming broadened and curved slightly westward. Con-
tinuing southward, one descends three more similar scarps of less height
before reaching the lowest point in the embankment. Each of these
descents is formed by the end of a comparatively thin layer of gravel that
was added by the currents to the surface of the structure, and would no
doubt have been carried along its whole extent had not a rise in the lake
caused the currents to begin the formation of another similar sheet of gravel
near the shore and at a higher level. Each of the steps in the crest of the
embankment represents a pause in the rise of the waters of the ancient lake.
The highest in the series was the last formed. The incompleteness in this
instance furnishes the suggestion that similar embankments which seem from
their form to be homogeneous may in reality be highly compound. The
irregular stratification of the embankment retaining Humboldt Lake is
illustrated by the following sketch of the section exposed on the right side
of the channel that has been eroded through it  The general inclination of
the strata on the west side of the embankment is much greater than on


the east, the reason being that in deposits of this nature the scarps sloping
with the current are usually steeper than those inclined in the direction
from which the current arrives. The lines of unconformability sloping
gently westward in the upper part of the section indicate periods of erosion
when the top of the structure was removed and subsequently rebuilt with
current-bedded gravels. At the time these alterations were made, the lake
surface in each instance must have been nearly on a level with the top of
the embankment.
	The embankment crossing the valley is older than the branching
structures forming the surface at either end, as is shown by the superposi-
tion of the latter. This is well exhibited in the left side of the gap cut by


FIG. 17.- Section of gravel embankment at west end of Humboldt Lake.
