40	GEOLOGICAL HISTORY OF LAKE LAHONTAN.


				RIVERS.

	The rivers that enter the Lahontan basin are the Humboldt, from the
east, Quinn River, from the north, and the Truckee, Carson, and Walker,
from the west and southwest. All these streams flow through partially filled
ca~~ons which bear evidence of having been excavated by stream erosion
previous to the first rise of Lake Lahontan. These rivers, like most others
in the Great Basin, vary greatly in volume during the year. In winter and
spring they become broad, rapidly flowing floods of muddy water that over-
spread their banks, but during the dry season, from May to November, they
shrink greatly in volume, and sometimes become dry for a large part of
their course.

			THE HUMBOLDT RIVER.

	This river16 rises on the eastern border of Nevada and flows westward
for approximately 200 miles, and enters the Lahontan basin through a pass
in the Sonoma Mountains, in latitude 41~. From this point it continues
its course through Lahontan lake-beds for nearly 100 miles to Humboldt
Lake. Throughout the dry season this is usually its terminus, but during
the winter months the lake frequently overflows, and the river continues
to North Carson Lake ("Carson and Humboldt Sink"), where its waters
are evaporated. The Humboldt before entering the Lahontan basin receives
a number of tributaries, the largest being Reese River, which enters from
the south. During the summer and fall many of these streams, including
Reese River, fail to reach the main channel, their waters being dissipated
by evaporation or absorbed by the thirsty soil. In its course through the
Lahontan lake-beds between Golconda and Humboldt Lake, the river has
carved a ca~~on, in places 200 feet deep, since the recession of the former
lake. The material removed in cutting this channel has been deposited in
the northern part of Humboldt Lake, and has contributed largely to the
formation of a broad low-grade delta that is already partially converted into
rich meadow-lands.


	16Named Humboldt by Fr~~mont, but was previously known as Mary's, or Ogden River. See Fr~~-
mont's Geographical Memoir upon Upper California, Washington, 1848, page 10.
