28	THE EFFECTS OF IONIZING RADIATION


creases in human mutations due to the action of any environmental agent
is still difficult. For somatic abnormalities induced in utero by radiation,
the position is somewhat intermediate-~that is, some human data have
been obtained, but we also depend on animal data.
  The emphasis on human studies for determining the somatic effects of
ionizing radiation remains valid, although theoretical and experimental
studies continue to be important in extending our basic knowledge. For
most types of health effects occurring in those exposed to radiation, we
now have considerable human experience, as the balance of this report
shows. Moreover, in terms of establishing human risk estimates, it is a
well-recognized principle in the field of environmental toxicology that
results obtained in animal experiments are not necessarily translatable
directly to human populations. For example, the fact that the human pop-
ulation is genetically heterogeneous, with widely varying individual
physiologic and biochemical characteristics, makes it likely that there are
subpopulations at special risk from radiation exposure. It is difficult to
simulate this kind of heterogeneity in animal populations, other than by
inferences drawn from species variation in responses or from differences
in susceptibility between strains of a given species.
  We lack adequate information on the effects of low radiation doses in
human populations, and in this regard we still depend on concepts that
have been developed on the basis of experimental studies. In this report,
these studies are discussed in some detail.
  Although epidemiologic studies constitute our principal source of infor-
mation on somatic effects of ionizing radiation in human populations, one
must recognize that there are problems in their use. The first problem
arises from the fact that generally the group has been exposed to radiation
because of some particular characteristic and thus may not be represen-
tative of the population at large. The reasons why those exposed to radia-
tion are not typical of the general population may not affect radiation sen-
sitivity, but an appropriate comparison group is nonetheless required.
  The epidemiologic technique to deal with the scientific problem of a
potentially biased sample is to obtain a control group matched as nearly as
possible to the exposed persons. In radiation epidemiology, considerable
effort has been made to deal with the question of the suitability of a con-
trol group. For example, in the Japanese atomic-bomb survivors, the zero-
dose groups (those in the cities at the time of the bombing, but so far away
from the bomb detonation that they were not exposed) are useful controls,
although in the Nagasaki sample they are comparatively few. An alter-
native method has been to consider the regression of effects (such as
cancer rates) on radiation dose. Systematic differences in rates of cancer
not related to radiation exposure, for example, might be expected to be
