310			THE EFFECTS OF IONIZING RADIATION


Thus far, after exposure periods of 4-5 yr and cumulative doses of more
than 11,000 WLM, seven dogs among the groups exposed to radon and
uranium have developed lung cancer: three bronchoalveolar cancers
(without cigarette-smoking), three epidermoid cancers (smoking status
not stated, but one evidently nonsmoking), and one fibrosarcoma of the
peripheral lung (nonsmoking). In animals of these groups that were
sacrificed after 40 mo or more, extensive adenomatosis was found at
the bronchoalveolar junction, as well as granulomas and bullous emphy-
sema.47 Three dogs have had squamous carcinomas of the nasal mucosa
(two nonsmoking and one smoking). No cancer at any site has appeared
among the smoking dogs not exposed to radon and uranium, and at 4-5 yr
pulmonary changes have been minimal in this group.
  The Hanford group has exposed hamsters and rats to radon daughters
(900 and 1,200 WL) with and without uranium-ore dust (15 mg/m3) for
5 mo, with total cumulative doses of about 10,000-12,000 WLM.14,48
Squamous metaplasia of the nasopharynx was a very common observation
in both hamsters and rats exposed to radon daughters only, and there
were a few squamous-cell cancers of the nasal epithelium. The groups ex-
posed to dust and radon daughters had changes in the deep lung, instead
of nasal mucosal metaplasia. Hamsters thus exposed had no lung neo-
plasia, but did have fibrosis, emphysema, and adenomatosis. However,
rats exposed to radon daughters and dust had a high proportion of bron-
choalveolar squamous carcinomas and occasional adenocarcinomas. It is
evident that hamsters were more resistant than rats to development of
lower respiratory tract neoplasia. Moreover, the contrast in results be-
tween those exposed and not exposed to dust indicates that radiation ex-
posure without dust was chiefly to the upper airway, presumably owing to
absorption there of the free-ion fraction of radon daughters.
  Little and colleagues have demonstrated bronchoalveolar cancer induc-
tion from polonium-210 instilled intratracheally in hamsters at mean
doses as low as 15 rads.27 A single dose of 100 nCi in 0.2 ml of saline pro-
duced tumors in fewer animals (two of 31) than a slightly lower cumulative
dose given in 15 instillations each of 5.6 nCi each (14 of 59 animals).25
A most important observation in these experiments has been that instilla-
tion of salt solution alone increased the effects of polonium instillation.
For example, if, under the same conditions of exposure, the single instilla-
tion (100 nCi) was followed by 14 weekly intratracheal instillations of 0.2
ml of normal saline, the proportion of animals with tumors was approxi-
mately the same as in the group given 15 instillations of 5.6 nCi. A num-
ber of such experiments have shown the enhancement of lung-cancer
production in hamsters from alpha-radiation exposure by this potential
stimulus to bronchial cell proliferation.28 Saline alone was as effective in
