NOTICE: The project that is the subject of this report was approved by the Governing
Board of the National Research Council, whose members are drawn from the Councils of
the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the Institute
of Medicine. The members of the committee responsible for the report were chosen for
their special competences and with regard for appropriate balance.
  This report has been reviewed by a group other than the authors according to procedures
approved by a Report Review Committee consisting of members of the National Academy
of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the Institute of Medicine.

  The National Research Council was established by the National Academy of Sciences in
1916 to associate the broad community of science and technology with the Academy's
purposes of furthering knowledge and of advising the federal government. The Council
operates in accordance with general policies determined by the Academy under the author-
ity of its Congressional charter of 1863, which established the Academy as a private, non-
profit, self-governing membership corporation. The Council has become the principal
operating agency of both the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of
Engineering in the conduct of their services to the government, the public, and the scien-
tific and engineering communities. It is administered jointly by both Academies and the
Institute of Medicine. The National Academy of Engineering and the Institute of Medicine
were established in 1964 and 1970, respectively, under the charter of the National Academy
of Sciences.

  The work presented in this report was supported by the Office of Radiation Programs,
Environmental Protection Agency, under contract 68-01-4301.

PUBLISHER'S NOTE: This edition differs from the typescript edition that was released in
July 1980 in that a number of changes made by the Committee (necessitated chiefly by cor-
rection of a programming error) have been incorporated.

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 80-81659

International Standard Book Number 0-309-03095-1

First Printing, November 1980
Second Printing, March 1981
Third Printing, June 1984

Available from:
NATIONAL ACADEMY PRESS
2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20418

Printed in the United States of America
