64


9. COUPLING JOINT WATER FLOW WITH DILATION AND CLOSURE

  The mechanical and hydraulic behavior of rock joints when subject to stress
change cannot be accurately modelled, unless an accurate method can be derived
for measuring real joint apertures in situ, prior to stress perturbation. The
unknown stress history of joints in situ means that the techniques developed
in Section 8 would only provide a crude approximation to apertures in situ,
even if the present stress distribution was known. An alternative method for
estimating apertures in situ is presented by water flow tests.
  The flow of water through rock joints can be represented by adopting the
analogy of laminar flow between smooth parallel plates. The equivalent smooth
wall aperture (e) and permeability (e2/12) can be derived from the following
modified form of Darcy's law relating flow rate (q) and gradient (dP/dy):


			where w = width of flow path (lateral dimension)
			      ~ = absolute viscosity (1.2 ~ 10-5gm.sec/cm2 at 10~C)
Analysis of linear and radial flow tests through artificial tension fractures
in granite, basalt and marble led Witherspoon et al. (1979) to conclude that
this so-called "cubic" law was valid whether the fracture surfaces were open
to 250 m, or closed to 4 m by application of normal stresses as high as 20 MPa.
However, they did note slight deviations (reduced flow) and indicated that (q)
ranged from 60 - 96% of the above theoretical flow rate due to roughness effects.
  However, analysis of Witherspoon et al. (1979) indicates that the absolute
apertures of the fractures were not recorded, only changes in aperture (~e).
The reported analyses were based on estimates of the residual apertures - the
apertures remaining when the normal stress was as high as 20 MPa.
  Analysis of other data reported in the literature suggests that tortuosity
and roughness causes much larger flow losses than indicated above. In fact,
Kranz et al. (1979) and Walsh (1981) went so far as to suggest that the law of
effective stress may not apply to flow through jointed rocks.

9.1 REAL APERTURE AND CONDUCTING APERTURE

  In a recent article, Tsang and Witherspoon (1981) have also questioned
the exactness of equation 9.1, and have proposed that the roughness of the
fracture walls be taken into account to modify the true aperture. In fact,
the concept of discrete values of real aperture (E) and conducting aperture (e)
