3


efforts, objectives and organization of the project, area characterization
activities, and a description of the domes under investigation.
	The effort to identify a suitable repository site in salt can be
traced from 1954, when the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) asked the
National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council (NAS-NRC) to look at
the problem and recommend a solution. After intensive study, that group
recommended geologic disposal in salt formations as the best of the many
options that they had considered (NAS-NRC, 1957). This position has been
reaffirmed in subsequent studies (NAS-NRC, 1970).
	Characteristics of salt deposits that are considered to be especially
favorable for storage of high-level radioactive waste include the following.
	(1) Many salt beds have remained undisturbed and dry for tens to
	    hundreds of millions of years, indicative of their long-term
	    integrity and nondissolution by hydrologic systems.
	(2) Rock salt exhibits the ability to dissipate large quantities of
	    heat (as would be generated by high-level wastes).
	(3) Owing to its natural plasticity, salt is capable of "self-
	    sealing" fractures which might develop in it, thus preventing
	    access by fluids along zones of weakness.
	(4) Rock salt appears to undergo only minor change due to exposure
	    to radioactivity.
	(5) Rock salt is comparable to concrete as a gamma-ray-shielding
	    medium, and it has a compressive strength similar to that of
	    concrete.
	(6) Salt deposits that are sufficiently deep and thick to be con-
	    sidered as having potential are widespread in this country and
	    generally occur in areas characterized by low levels of seis-
	    micity and tectonic activity; thus, the potential for damage to
	    repository structures (shaft, surface plant) resulting from
	    earthquakes is greatly reduced.
	(7) Domestic salt resources are great enough so that if sites in
	    several deposits were selected as repositories, there would be
	    no adverse effect on the resource base. Repository sites also
