E-65
   At the level of the area reports and ONWI-109, certain domes could be
justifiably eliminated on geologic criteria without the acquisition of more
site-specific data. As studies become more site specific, so will the
socioeconomic data and comparisons among the domes.
   A socioeconomic model for assessing general impacts of repository siting
is in the final stages of development. This "Socioeconomic Assessment of
Repository Siting" model is being designed to project (1) economic, (2)
demographic, (3) housing and residential, (4) fiscal, and (5) public service
impacts of repository development at possible sites. Components of the model
will be used as input to the final exploratory shaft site selection process.
Once the exploratory shaft site has been selected the model will be used to
conduct an in-depth and comprehensive analysis of projected socioeconomic
impacts of a repository. Representatives of affected states may use the model
to conduct independent assessments of socioeconomic impacts.
   DOE has developed the document, Framework for Community Planning
(ONWI-254, draft), to assist affected communities in becoming involved in
impact assessment and mitigation. The book has been issued to affected states
for review. The purposes of the book are to focus on the social and economic
impacts which may be experienced in the communities affected by a repository,
initiate discussions with the states and communities on methods to eliminate
or reduce these impacts, and propose mechanisms for providing financial and
technical resources. Since state and local conditions, customs, laws, and
regulations vary, there may be state-specific additions to the handbook
prepared as the site selection process proceeds.

4. The study methodology is very questionable from many points of view.
   Elimination of domes has followed a very random process. The methodology
   does not follow the same criteria for each dome. Richton should have
   been eliminated for socioeconomic and human intrusions because it would
   eliminate the town if the land acquisition prescribed in ONWI-18 is
   adhered to. Cypress Creek should have been eliminated for the military
   conflict, but these issues were not even considered in the elimination
   process. These factors seem to be far more important than the glacial
   activity which apparently was the main reason for the elimination of the
   Rayburn's Dome in Louisiana and Keechi in Texas. It appears that the 
   size has been given an overriding consideration and I question the heavy
   weight placed on this element of the criteria, when the space needed is
