E-34


4. If an individual who is not familiar with these studies reads the
   environmental section, it would appear that more concern is being placed
   on history and wildife instead of people. There are seventeen federal
   Acts and Laws referenced in Section 5.2.9.1. from the Wilderness Act of
   1964 to the National Heritage Act Program. Since the DOE has been
   assuring the citizens of Perry County that their health and safety are
   prime considerations, then why was the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974 not
   included?

   It concerns the personnel in the Bureau of Environmental Health that the
   groundwater sources in this area were not extensively investigated during
   the Area Characterization Studies. Since all of the public and private
   water supplies in this area rely on these fresh water aquifers as a source
   of drinking water, then ONWI should place more emphasis on this issue if
   past statements about protecting the public health and safety are true.

   The public health and safety are of primary importance to the program.
The major objective of the NWTS program is to isolate nuclear waste so it will
pose no significant threat to public health and safety. The list of laws in
ONWI-109 was not intended to be a complete list of appropriate legislation.
The potential effects of site development on water supplies, public and
private, surface and subsurface, could not be extensively evaluated at the
level of the area characterization studies, because the potential conflicts
are more site specific. Future studies during the location characterization
phase will thoroughly characterize water resources, including the evaluation
of such factors as current water quality and quantity, usage, and projected
future demand from this project and others. This information will then be
used to evaluate the effects site development activities will have on water
resources. This type of evaluation process will occur in all regions and
therefore permit comparisons prior to any site being selected for an
exploratory shaft or repository.

5. By what methodology were the four domes selected? It is evident that the
   criteria outlined in ONWI-33(2) have not been fully utilized. If these
   ten major criteria were not to be used, then why was ONWI-33(2) ever
   published?

6. The overall content of this report is so generalized that it is difficult
   if not impossible to reach any logical conclusions on pertinent issues.

   The site selection methodology was explained in various sections of
ONWI-109. The evaluation of the salt domes was discussed relative to the
NWTS-33(2) criteria.
