I-2                                               DOE 6430.1
                                                  12-12-83
(2)  These criteria shall be applied in the acquisition of new pre-
     engineered metal buildings and in-plant fabricated modular/
     relocatable buildings, and in the acquisition of other buildings and
     other semipermanent or temporary facilities including trailer units,
     to the extent technically, economically, legally, or contractually
     feasible.

(3)  Paragraph 3 in this Chapter I contains fundamental design requirements. 
     Chapters II through XV contain the more discipline-oriented design 
     criteria. Follow-on chapters, beginning with Chapter XVI, contain 
     additional criteria for certain types of facilities either common to
     most DOE sites and operating requirements, or of a specialized nature. 
     In their application, these general design criteria should be used as 
     a whole because of the interrelationships or interdependence among 
     the various chapters.

(4)  The general design criteria incorporate, either directly or by cross-
     reference to other DOE directives, applicable requirements and guid-
     ance promulgated by those Headquarters organizations having assigned 
     responsibilities in such areas as health protection, safety, fire 
     protection, environmental protection, safeguards and security, quality 
     assurance, telecommunications, energy management, site selection, site 
     development planning, and other areas.

     (a)  Collective use needs to be made of the general design criteria 
          and other DOE directives listed in Attachment I-1, and as 
          individually identified in the various chapters of this Order. 
          Contractors or subcontractors providing facility planning or 
          design services, or building acquisition services, to the 
          Department will need to be apprised of all applicable 
          requirements and guidelines.

     (b)  Where there are conflicts between the general design criteria 
          and any of the referenced DOE directives they should be brought 
          to the attention of the Headquarters Office of Project and 
          Facilities Management for mutual resolution with other respon-
          sible Headquarters organizations. Continuing efforts will be 
          made to assure that the general design criteria and the 
          referenced DOE directives provide consistent technical direction 
          and guidance.

(5)  Departmental organizations having first-line responsibilities for 
     facility planning, design, and construction have the authority to 
     determine to what degree the criteria in this Order are to be applied 
     to facility planning or design work which was started prior to issu-
     ance of this Order. In making these determinations, attention needs 
     to be given to the current stage of facility planning or design; 
     potential cost and schedular impact of applying the criteria; any 
     applicable requirements of Federal laws, regulations, Executive 
     Orders, or other DOE directives identified within the criteria; and 
     other appropriate factors.
