I-22     DOE 6430.1


12-12-83


	5 Equipment manufacturers recommended operating and maintenance
	  procedures;

	6 Recommended spare parts lists;

	7 Performance and acceptance test procedures and data;

	8 Day-to-day operating instruction for all equipment and
	  controls; and

	9 Special energy conservation instructions.

   (b)	Of particular importance for operation and maintenance is the
	availability of accurate "as built" drawings. Procedures shall
	be established for periodic revision of the "as-built" drawings.
	"As built" drawings should clearly identify structural material
	strengths, live loads, and lateral forces used in the design of
	the facility. In addition, special attention needs to be given
	to preparation of instructions for the day-to-day operation of
	electrical and mechanical systems and controls (manual and auto-
	matic); and to reduce energy consumption in buildings and achieve
	the energy-use design goals.

   (c)	During development of O&M manuals, consultation with those
	responsible for facility operation and maintenance is required
	to assure the resulting manuals are complete and adequate.

   (d)	The number of required copies of O&M instructions will vary
	depending upon the operating and maintenance complexities for
	each facility project and the operating and maintenance organi-
	zations' requirements. Because these instructions (manuals)
	will need to be revised from time-to-time to properly reflect
	system and equipment changes, it is important to keep their
	number to the minimum necessary for effective operating and
	maintenance purposes. As a general rule, no less than 6 copies
	should be prepared. At least one copy will need to be made a
	part of the project files or otherwise assigned to a non-use
	location (stored) for permanent retention for the life of the
	facility.

n. Decontamination and Decommissioning.

   (1)	Design of facilities where radioactive or other hazardous
	contaminating materials will be utilized in, or result from facility
	operation, shall incorporate measures to limit dispersion and
	simplify decontamination and ultimate facility decommissioning and
	disposal or reuse. It is important that careful consideration be
	given to both the decontamination requirements that may be needed
	from time-to-time during the operating life of the facility and to
	the ultimate decontamination requirements prior to decommissioning
