VIII-4                                             DOE 6430.1
                                                   12-12-83
        requirements for several circuits and connections in a rela-
        tively small area or where service reliability is a prime 
        consideration, cable in duct shall be used. Underground duct 
        envelopes should be color-coded to facilitate identification, 
        and electrical manholes shall be appropriately labeled.

    (b) Direct buried cable should be used for single circuit 
        installations through areas not likely to be disturbed by 
        excavation and where service reliability is not of critical 
        importance. Where the hazards exist, direct burial cable shall 
        be protected from damage from burrowing animals by the use of 
        cable with steel armor, or cables shall otherwise be installed 
        in duct. Where direct burial cables are connected to above-
        surface junction or terminating boxes, they shall be encased in 
        rigid steel conduit from the box to below ground level. Protec-
        tive treated planks or precast reinforced concrete slabs should 
        be placed above direct-buried cables. See Chapter I of this 
        Order for additional criteria on underground services.

(5) Circuits, either overhead or underground, shall be arranged so 
    that relatively unimportant circuits will not jeopardize important 
    loads. Protective devices shall be provided and coordinated for 
    sequential operation from the load to the source. However, the use 
    of unnecessarily elaborate protection schemes shall be avoided.

(6) Industry "Preferred Standard" voltages shall be used, with a single 
    voltage in any classification in order to minimize stocks of spare 
    equipment required and to standardize operating and maintenance 
    practices and procedures.

b. Switching Stations and Substations.

(1) Design shall be in accordance with established utility industry 
    practices. When switching is the main function, circuit routings will 
    dictate the station location. When transformation is the main func-
    tion, the substations shall be located so that the lengths of second-
    ary feederlines are kept to a practical minimum. Stations should 
    generally be utilitarian in their design and construction. However, 
    when necessary to conform with local beautification programs, 
    consideration should be given to the use of low-profile switching 
    station and substation structures and the provision of visual barriers 
    at the perimeters.

(2) Where not otherwise provided for billing purposes by a supplying 
    utility company, electric energy metering (kWH metering) should be 
    provided at each substation of 500 kVA or larger capacity. In 
    addition, when not required by the utility company, demand metering 
    (kW metering) may also be provided for site or area load management 
    purposes.
