DOE 6430.1                                                XVII-15
12-12-83
   Venting of drain systems shall be given special attention, and suitable 
   alternates to normal atmospheric venting adopted where the hazards of the 
   waste materials and off-gases dictate. All-welded pipe systems should be 
   utilized to minimize joint leakage of toxic materials. Piping containing 
   hazardous solutions or gases should not be buried or concealed unless alarm 
   systems, leak detectors, and means for secondary containment are provided.

6. ELECTRICAL AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS. In addition to the criteria contained in
   Chapter VI and Chapter VII of the Order, the following criteria shall also be
   applied in the planning and design of laboratory facilities.

a. Special attention shall be given in the planning and design of electrical 
   distribution systems in laboratory facilities to assure the needed degree 
   of flexibility for laboratory and experimental work and for personal 
   safety. Receptacles shall be located with due consideration to the 
   location of laboratory benches, fixed and movable equipment, and work 
   areas. Where practicable, receptacle strips should be utilized. Except 
   for standard convenience receptacles (e.g., 110-volt, single phase), all 
   receptacles should be clearly marked as to voltage, number of phases of 
   power supply, conventional building power or "clean power" (e.g., isolated 
   power supplies from constant voltage sources), whether alternating current 
   or direct current, conventional 60 Hz or other alternating current frequen-
   cies, and so forth. Particular attention shall be given to electrical 
   safety requirements, and DOE/EV-0051/1, "Electrical Safety Criteria for 
   Research and Development Activities" (Interim Criteria of August, 1979) 
   shall be utilized in laboratory facility planning and design to the extent 
   applicable. In addition, it must be recognized that special electrical 
   shock and burn hazards can exist in most types of laboratories from such 
   sources as unique experimental apparatus, laboratory instruments, test 
   equipment, and those hazards common to wet laboratories. Proper consider-
   ations shall be given to the use of ground fault circuit interrupter 
   (GFCI) devices. See paragraph 8, Chapter VI of this Order for additional 
   personnel protection criteria.

b. Emergency lighting shall be provided where specifically required by the 
   operations to be performed and where otherwise required for life safety. 
   These shall be either self-contained emergency lighting units or selected 
   lighting fixtures that can be served from an emergency power source on loss 
   of normal power source. When self-contained emergency lighting units are 
   installed in an area, the source of AC power shall be taken from the same 
   circuit as the area lighting but ahead of the lighting switch station, or 
   from the area security light fixture(s) continuous power source that is 
   not switched.

c. Interior telecommunications, alarm and annunicator systems shall be 
   provided for fire alarm, evacuation alarm, radiation alarm, intrusion 
   alarm (as appropriate), paging, public address, or other requirements 
   for the particular facility. See Chapter VII of this Order for addi-
   tional criteria. Fan shutdown, smoke control, exhaust fan failure,
