DOE 6430.1  XXI-29


12-12-83


b. Accountability of Plutonium.

   (1)	Material Balance Areas. Design of the facility, where the process
	permits, shall provide physically separate material balance areas
	(MBA) so that transfers from one MBA account to another correspond
	to a physical transfer of plutonium. The boundary of the MBA
	shall be chosen to coincide with points in the process where
	determination of plutonium transfers to other MBAs can be made.
	The measurement capability shall be provided so that the components
	of the material balance formed across the process will be composed
	entirely of measured quantities. Common nondestructive assay
	(NDA) equipment can be used for more that one MBA. The selection
	of MBAs shall be based on the requirements in DOE 5630.2, CONTROL
	AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF NUCLEAR MATERIALS, BASIC PRINCIPLES, of
	8-21-80. Where the process permits, the following shall be
	complied with:

	(a)	Equipment Layout. The layout of the equipment within the
		facility shall be designed to permit segregation of material
		balance areas to the maximum extent possible recognizing the
		primary importance of process requirements.

	(b)	Equipment Design. Measurement equipment, appropriate to the
		process, shall be integrated with process equipment to permit
		quantitative determinations of plutonium in transfers between
		MBAs, including receipts, shipments, and materials on inven-
		tory.

	(c)	Data Processing. Provisions for data processing shall be made
		which are commensurate with information processing requirements
		of DOE 5630.1.

   (2)	Inventory Capability of Plutonium in Process. Design of the process
	and measurement equipment shall provide for minimizing scrap inven-
	tory and shall provide a capability for measuring the in process
	inventory, including scrap, at the end of the accounting period in
	accordance with the basic requirements in DOE 5630.2. Equipment,
	such as process equipment, storage containers, tankage, and filters,
	should be designed and arranged to facilitate access for the deter-
	mination of plutonium content and provide a means of minimizing
	holdup in the equipment. Process piping and ductwork should be
	designed to facilitate detection of plutonium holdup.

   (3)	Inventory Capability of Plutonium in Storage. Design of the storage
	area and equipment shall provide a capability for accomplishing a
	physical inventory. Storage areas in the facility shall be designed
	with features that facilitate identification and retrieval of items
	containing plutonium, preferably through an automated system.
	Consideration should be given to segregating plutonium from other
	materials in the storage area. See paragraph 12, above, for addi-
	tional storage facilities design criteria.
