IV-12                                               
                                                    DOE 6430.1
                                                    12-12-83
d. Exterior Walls.

(1) Materials. Foundation walls should be constructed of poured concrete. 
    The use of masonry walls below grade should be avoided, except where 
    deemed suitable for existing site conditions and project requirements. 
    For exposed exterior walls, consideration should be given to masonry 
    composite walls, insulated metal or concrete panels and other prefab-
    ricated wall construction. Where the lower portion of exterior 
    wall(s) is subject to damage from vehicle traffic, material handling 
    or other activities, care shall be taken in selecting a proper 
    material and material thickness, or possibly providing a protective 
    wainscot. Exposed insulation, light metal construction, or frangible 
    materials shall be protected from activities which could cause 
    damage. Building facades should reflect an honest representation of 
    building function and materials of construction. However, the 
    relationship of new buildings to the surrounding site and to existing 
    buildings need to be considered. Clashes between existing and new 
    architectural styles should be avoided, but older less suitable 
    styles of architecture should not be copied, with the possible 
    exception of additions to existing buildings.

(2) Insulation and Vapor Barriers.

    (a) Where composite walls are used, consideration shall be given to 
        the compatibility of the insulating and facing materials. Vapor 
        barriers and fibrous insulation shall be noncombustible or 
        labeled by a nationally recognized testing laboratory as meeting 
        a flame spread rating of 25 or less and a smoke developed rating 
        of 50 or less. For cavity walls, use of treated (water repel-
        lent) granular fill may be appropriate. Rigid board insulation 
        of cellular materials generally retain their insulating values 
        longer than do fibrous materials that are more vulnerable to 
        moisture. Foamed-in-place insulations should be carefully 
        evaluated due to possible problems in shrinkage of the foam and 
        their resistance to high temperature and humidity.

        1 Where foamed plastic insulations such as urethane are used, 
          care shall be given to effectively seal the insulation within 
          the sandwich wall construction or panel assembly to protect 
          against release of toxic gases under fire conditions. See 
          Chapter X, for additional criteria.

        2 Where blown-in or foamed-in-place insulating media applica-
          tions are planned for hollow walls, the effects on electrical 
          wiring within the walls needs to be evaluated and assurance 
          given that the operating temperature of the wiring will not 
          exceed that designated for the type of insulated conductor 
          involved (see Article 310 of the National Electrical Code).
