XII-2   DOE 6430.1


12-12-83


  (1)	Chapter I, "Environmental Protection, Safety and Health Protection
	Standards," for specific regulations, standards, and guides appli-
	cable to design of pollution control systems and facilities.

  (2)	Chapter XI, "Requirements for Radiation Protection."

  (3)	Chapter XII, "Prevention, Control, and Abatement of Environmental
	Pollution."

g. DOE 5481.1A, SAFETY ANALYSIS AND REVIEW SYSTEM, of 8-13-81.

h. DOE 5700.6A, QUALITY ASSURANCE, of 8-13-81.

3. PLANNING. The following should receive early attention in the planning phase
   in order to provide an overall cost-effective solution to the protection of
   the aquatic environment and water supply sources, both surface and underground:

   a.	Alternate Production Flow methods. In the case of new DOE production/
	manufacturing facilities, there may be alternate production flow methods
	which may have different effects on the waste stream characteristics.
	Waste treatment costs, manpower requirements, and so forth should be
	factored into production method decisions in the planning stage. Water
	use management principles shall be applied to reduce water consumption
	(and volume of wastes) whenever technologically feasible.

   b.	Recycle and/or Recovery of Waste Streams. Zero discharge of pollutants
	is the Congressional goal expressed in the Federal Water Pollution
	Control Act. In order to meet Congressional intent, it is necessary
	to consider recycle/recovery techniques for the entire waste stream
	or for constituent parts.

   c.	Alternative Waste Treatment Techniques. In those instances where effluent
	treatment is required prior to discharge to receiving streams, alternate
	treatment systems should be evaluated. The Federal Water Pollution
	Control Act requires "best available" treatment by 1983, as determined by
	the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Factors to be evaluated and
	negotiated with EPA include capital costs, operating costs, simplicity of
	facility operations, facility compatibility with site, and sludge
	generation and disposal.

   d.	Disposal of Solids Generated During Liquid Effluent Treatment. Since
	effluent treatment in many cases consists of converting liquid waste
	into solid waste, careful consideration shall be given to sludge disposal.
	Sludge toxicity, solubility, and so forth may make ordinary landfill
	disposal unsuitable. Therefore, techniques such as stabilization, biode-
	gradation or biosphere isolation may be required. Protection of ground and
	surface water is particularly important in these evaluations and is
	required pursuant to the Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, and the
	Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
