IV-16      DOE 6430.1


12-12-83


(b)	Each roofing penetration is a potential source of water entry,
	as with penetrations of any waterproofing system. The use of
	roof-mounted solar collectors, and other roof-mounted equipment,
	on new or existing roofs can, for example, be a significant
	contributing factor to accelerated roof failure if not properly
	installed. Where direct rooftop installations of equipment are
	unavoidable, the supporting frames should have legs or posts of
	sufficient height above the roof membrane to facilitate roof
	maintenance, and total roof replacement without requiring
	equipment removal or structural support alterations. In
	general, the bottom of equipment stands should be at least 3
	feet above the top of the finished roof membrane. For equipment
	setting on curbs, one foot above the finished roof should
	generally be adequate.

(c)	The method of flashing supporting-legs or posts to the roof
	requires special attention. The use of improved methods, in
	lieu of conventional pitch pans (or pitch pockets) that have not
	always been satisfactory, should be investigated and the current
	recommendations of the National Roofing Contractors Association
	(NRCA) followed.

(d)	Equipment placement on roofs generate other potential roof, or
	roof support, damage problems related to roof traffic during
	placement and during subsequent servicing, or replacement. In
	many cases, the weight of mechanical equipment or other equip-
	ment can be such as to require specific placement in accordance
	with the structural design loading of the roofing support
	system. The movement of heavy equipment across a roof will
	often cause structural deflection of the roof deck sufficient
	to break the bond of the roof, as well as cracking the felts.
	Crane or helicopter placement is sometimes necessary in lieu of
	dragging or skidding the equipment across the roof. For
	equipment installation and later servicing, it is necessary to
	provide suitable roof protection not only for personnel access
	to the equipment but also around the equipment, itself.
	Generally, the most roof damage can result from work efforts in
	the immediate equipment area.

(e)	An effective roof management and maintenance program is an
	important element of the overall facility or site maintenance
	program. Integral to the program is a system of control that
	not only limits building roof access to authorized personnel but
	also provides a mechanism for review and approval of proposed
	additions of roof mounted equipment. This review of equipment
	additions should include an analysis of the building structure,
	placement method, roof protection provided, and flashing
	provisions.
