VII-8  DOE 6430.1


12-12-83


	recording annunciator, code call, telautograph and other remote
	writing systems, master clock, radio remote control, and monitoring
	circuits of security alarm and supervisory systems. The initial and
	ultimate circuit requirements for these services shall be included in
	sizing the telephone cable riser and distribution system.

(2)	Other telecommunications and alarm services require low resistance
	series circuits, employ high level audio signals or require broadband
	or radio frequency channels or special wiring which cannot be accom-
	modated in the regular telephone cables, but which, under proper
	conditions, may share the same conduit system. These "compatible"
	services include fire alarm and supervisory; intrusion detection
	wiring; high-level intercom, paging, music distribution and public
	address; closed circuit television; radio and TV receiving; warning
	and evacuation horns or sirens; and highspeed data transmission
	facilities. Such services will normally require separate riser and
	feeder distribution conduits, boxes, and terminal cabinets. Joint
	use of conduits, equipment closets, underfloor ducts and raceway
	systems by telephone and other communications and signal conductors
	is permissible if the "other" conductors are shielded, transposed, or
	otherwise made electrically compatible; classified data or information
	is not being transmitted; and the working capacity of the conduit
	system is adequate to accommodate expected circuit requirements of
	all systems involved. The National Electrical Code contains specific
	prohibitions on mixing Class 2 or Class 3 power limited circuits in
	raceways with other circuits. For reference see NEC Articles 725,
	800, and 810.

g.	Temporary and Special Wiring. Exposed conduit, open cable trays and racks,
	and surface wireway may be used in areas where concealed wireways are not
	practicable, except that over-the-floor wireways shall not be used in new
	construction and their use should be avoided wherever possible in the
	revision of existing facilities. Where they must be used, suitable
	protection shall be provided to minimize the risks of personnel injury and
	damage to the wireways. Open (unprotected) wiring should be permitted
	only in structures provided for temporary use, such as construction
	offices or other temporary buildings or in areas requiring telephone
	service for very occasional and temporary periods.

6.	FIRE ALARM AND SUPERVISORY FACILITIES. Fire alarm systems shall be designed
	in accordance with NFPA National Fire Code requirements. Supporting facili-
	ties shall be designed as described in paragraphs 4 and 5, above, and as
	follows:

	a. Use of Telephone Facilities. For office buildings, administrative areas
	   and, where applicable, for industrial plants, emergency reporting tele-
	   phones (meeting NFPA Code requirements and listed by UL or approved by
	   FM) may be provided instead of manual fire alarm pull boxes. Emergency
	   telephones for interior use shall be located and marked in accordance with
	   the rules for manual fire alarm boxes. Wherever practicable, emergency

