Extraction ratio - Ratio of mined area to total area.   

Facility cask - A specially designed container that provides shielding and 
   containment for waste disposal packages during transfer from the surface 
   facility to the disposal locations underground.   

Fan-and-filter train - Ventilation system component consisting of a series of 
   graduated particulate air filters and a fan to compensate for the pressure 
   drop across the filters.   

Far field - The zone extending from the near field outward in all directions 
   to a distance equal to the depth of the disposal area.  The far field 
   includes the rockmass, the groundwater regime, and the shafts, ramps, and 
   drill holes.   

Fault - A fracture or fracture zone within a rock formation along which 
   vertical, horizontal, or transverse slippage occurs.   

Fault block - A crustal unit either completely or partly bounded by faults.   

Feeder/breaker - A component of the muck-handling system that is fed by 
   load-haul-dump (LHD) vehicles and that breaks up the mined rock and feeds 
   it to the main conveyor.   

Finite element calculations - An approximation method for studying continuous 
   physical systems; the physical system under study is divided into discrete 
   elements interconnected at discrete node points.   

Fission (nuclear) - The splitting of a nucleus into two or (rarely) more 
   fragments; usually limited to heavier nuclei such as isotopes of uranium, 
   plutonium, and thorium.   

Fission product - Any radioactive or stable nuclide produced by fission, 
   including both primary fission fragments and their radioactive decay 
   products.   

Fissionable material - Actinides capable of undergoing fission by interaction 
   with neutrons of all energies.   

Geohydrology - The science that relates to the character, source, and mode of 
   occurrence of the water of the earth.   

Geologic setting - The spatially distributed geologic, hydrologic, and geo-
   chemical systems at and around a geographic site.   

Glove box - A sealed compartment that has a protective liner and holes to 
   which gloves are attached and sealed for use in handling radioactive 
   materials inside the compartment.   

Ground support (or control) - Methods by which underground openings are 
   artificially supported to provide long-term stability; e.g., rockbolts, 
   steel sets, shotcrete.
G-5
