3.6.4	Steering Controls and Guidance System

  The outer housing, which is a machined casting, also serves as
foundation for the four cutterhead supports. These supports consist
of a curved shoe welded to two double acting machined wedge
slides. A hydraulic cylinder moves the shoe up or down a similarly
machined pair of inclined planes that are cast integral with the
outer housing (see D32909).

  Integral with the bell housing are similarly machined
inclined-plane wedges, located at 45~ on either side of the vertical
centerline. A hydraulically actuated shoe, similar to the
cutterhead support shoes, is attached to each wedge.

  The purpose of the top supports is to stabilize the cutterhead
and reduce head vibration by pressing through windows in the shield,
directly against the hole wall. Together with the lower supports,
the top supports provide a fulcrum plane about which the rear
steering jacks, operating against the inside of the shield in
various combinations, can pivot the cutterhead relative to the
shield. This pivoting action provides the ability to correct
drilling direction and is similar to the steering action of TBMs.

  The cylinders operating the various support shoes receive
filtered hydraulic oil under pressure from the multiaxial piston
pump driven by a gear reducer via solenoid-actuated directional
control valves. The electrical signals to the solenoids originate
from the operator at the control console and through a multicored
control cable attached to the boring machine.

  To enable the operator to know which way to correct the drill, a
ZED Instruments, Ltd., series TG 26E (modified) guidance system is
incorporated. The target for this system is mounted in-hole on the
right side of the outer muck plate housing, and the laser is mounted
on a steel bracket at the entrance to the bored hole. When the
laser beam strikes the photo-diode array target, a signal is
transmitted to a monitor unit located on the operating console.
Numbers, in millimeters, appear on the screen in the zone of the
offset. For example, if a 4 appears on the uppper part of the
screen, the drill head is 4 mm high. Additional data on the system
are contained in SAND83-7085.

  The cutterhead support principle is standard on Robbins TBMs.

  Using four remotely controlled steering jacks operating on the
wedge principle is a new application for a drill. However, similar
cylinder-actuated wedges are used to operate the side cutterhead
supports on TBMs according to proven principle. The success of this
steering concept will be dependent upon the reliability and
sensitivity of the hydraulic components, namely, the pump and the
directional control valves, and the severity of steering corrections
needed to keep the drill on course. The valves, pump, and laser
guidance system have been selected on the basis of proven
performance and reliability.


-20-
