4.4  Effect of Joint Orientation

In the previous sections all factor of safety plots were prepared for the 
case of joints that were vertical and parallel to the drift axis.  These plots 
revealed that the most joint activation was observed around the twin drifts 
between adjacent panels and that differences between the two alternative initial
stress states were relatively minor.  This investigation of the effect of joint 
orientation is, therefore, restricted to the twin drifts between the two panels,
under the gravity induced initial stress state.

Figures 17 through 19 illustrate the effect that the strike of vertical         
joints relative to the drift axis has on the predicted region of potential joint
activation.  These figures show that the region of potential joint activation 
decreases as the joints are rotated from parallel to drift axis, to perpendicular   
to it.  This may be attributed to the fact that the normal stresses on joints 
parallel to and close to the drift wall must be low, whereas the normal stresses
on joints perpendicular to the drift axis will be high as a result of the initial     
and any thermally induced horizontal stresses (Table 7).  Also, the shear 
stresses vanish on planes perpendicular to the drift axis because the out-of- 
plane stress is a principal stress.  Accordingly, the factor of safety against 
joint activation is very high in the case of joints in that direction (lower 
right plot in Figures 17, 18, and 19).

In view of the fact that the largest regions of potential joint activa-     
tion were predicted for joints parallel to the drift axis, investigation of the 
effect of joint dip was restricted to joints with that strike.  Joint activation
plots for joints of various dips are reproduced in Figure 20.  These indicate   
that the effect of the joint dip is to shift the region of joint activation and 
that much larger regions of potential activation may be anticipated for joints 
that are not vertical.  The reason for the shift can be deduced from the   
principal stress plots for these cases (Figures 10-12). For example, the effect 
of rotating the joint plane counterclockwise by 15 degrees is to increase the 
normal stresses on the joints in to the upper left and lower right of the drift,
increasing the factor of safety in those regions.  Similarly, such a joint rota-
tion causes the normal stresses and joint safety factors to decrease in the upper 
right and lower left.  The effect is even more marked in the case of joints with
dips of 45 degrees and lower,  for which more extensive regions of joint activa-
tion are observed.

The occurrence of large regions of potential activation along joints or 
other discontinuities that have shallow dips raises questions regarding the 
stability of the rock mass and the pillar between panels.  The first concern can
be addressed by using the data for a repository without access drifts that was 
presented in Table 3.  In Figure 21 the Mohr circles for the various drift loca-
tions are plotted along with the strength criteria for the matrix and the joints
for 50 years after waste emplacement, with gravity induced initial stresses. 
-11-
