46
    The sides of the glass samples were all similar.  The extent of glass 
reaction was investigated with SIMS.  In general, there was a depletion of Li
and Na from the glass, with the depth of depletion increasing with reaction 
time.  The profiles of other elements showed little change.  This was prelim-
inary evidence that diffusionally controlled hydration of the glass had 
occurred in these regions.  During such a hydration process, the more mobile 
elements would be released from the glass, but the matrix itself would 
remain intact [BATES-5].                                                     

    The bottom sections of the glass, in general, showed the greatest 
reaction of all surfaces.  The reacted areas of the glass corresponded exactly 
to the areas of the metal that showed evidence of strong interaction.  The 
same types of reaction products were found on the glass (Figs. 15-17) as were 
observed on the sensitized canister sections.  These included Fe, Cr, and Ni 
silicate phases, Fe-rich phases, and a U-containing phase.  The U phase either 
had a crystalline appearance (Fig. 17) or accumulated as an amorphous-appearing 
clump.  The composition of both forms was similar, but no XRD pattern could be  
obtained. 

    In tests F-1 through F-5, the sections of bottom glass that were in 
contact with the weld-affected regions of the canister had a similar appearance.
The circular, nonmetal contact areas were not always apparent, and they were 
never as clearly defined as for the top sections.  The reason for this finding 
is probably that standing water always covered the entire bottom surface of 
the waste package assemblage, which tended to normalize (even out) the reaction 
process across the bottom surface of the glass.  Such normalization was evident 
in the SIMS profiles, where there was little difference in the depth of reac-
tion between the glass contact and noncontact areas.  Both areas showed Li and 
Na depletion, followed by a smaller amount of B depletion.   

    The SIMS profiles were used only for those surfaces that were dis-
tantly removed from the regions of strong interaction.  The interaction regions 
were profiled by mounting the glass section in epoxy and cutting through the 
reacted region.  The cross section was polished and investigated with SEM/EDS.  
A cross section from F-5 is shown in Fig. 18.  A reaction layer ~2 ~m thick 
was tentatively indentified in the region of strong interaction.  Otherwise, 
no layers were found on the glass samples. 

    The bottom sections of glass from the tests that underwent little 
interaction with the metal showed some evidence of reaction, as evidenced by 
the cross-hatched appearance of the surface, but most of the original surface 
features were still evident.  In a few places, isolated reaction products were 
found, and in test F-8 there was a hole in the surface (originally a bubble 
that had been sectioned), around which some Fe/Cr silicate phases formed.

    The surface analyses of the glass suggest that two processes are 
controlling the glass reaction.  The first is the hydration of the glass, 
which occurs on all surfaces.  This is suggested by the selective release of 
alkali ions without the release of matrix elements (Si, B), and is a process 
where water exchanges with the mobile alkali elements (Na, Li) in the glass, 
but leaves the glass matrix relatively undisturbed.  This type of reaction 
process appears to control the reaction of the sides and top surfaces of the 
