repetition of these events at the same locations could conceivably result in
local salt build-up. When the container surface temperature has cooled to
below the boiling point, further wetting at locations of salt build-up could
lead to a concentrated electrolyte. This concentrated electrolyte could only
result from a sequence of low probability events; however, observing the
performance of candidate container materials under such environmental
conditions is instructive and is also necessary for selection of a successful
candidate material that will meet regulatory requirements for long-term
integrity of the container.

  In this paper, initial results are reported on the in-situ electrochemical
characterization of the response of 304L and 316L to gamma-irradiated
groundwater that is regional to the potential tuff repository site.
Open-circuit potential measurements and anodic polarization curves were
obtained under gamma irradiation. The major species responsible for the
observed electrochemical changes is shown to be radiolytically-generated
H2O2. Initial assessment of the effect of radiolysis on corrosion
mechanisms (e.g., pitting resistance) of 316L is given. The electrochemical
mechanisms leading to the observed corrosion potential behavior under gamma
irradiation are explored. Despite the fact that this study was site-specific,
the principal mechanisms and the general results should be applicable to any
near-neutral (or somewhat alkaline) aqueous system with low concentrations of
solute species.

Experimental

  Austenitic stainless steels 304L and 316L were used in the solution
annealed condition. The compositions of the alloys used are given in Table
1. Rods of these materials 0.318 cm in diameter by 15.2 cm in length were
used as working electrodes. All samples were polished with the sequence 600
grit SiC, 5~, 1~, 0.3~ and ending in 0.05~ Al2O3 slurries prior to
use.

  The groundwater used in these experiments was obtained from well J-13,
which is located near the repository site. The J-13 well penetrates the water
table at a lower elevation than that of the proposed repository site. Water


- 4 -
