Enstatite, forsterite, talc, anthophyllite, chrysotile, and antigorite 89


II. The values of ~G~f and ~H~f given in table 8 for calcite and ara-
gonite fall within the uncertainties in the corresponding values reported
by Robie and Waldbaum (1968). The fact that they are consistent with
both low-temperature solubility measurements and high pressure/tem-
perature phase equilibrium data reinforce the reliability of the thermo-
dynamic data given in table 8 for aragonite and calcite.


  Although equilibrium phase relations in this system have received
considerable geologic, experimental, and theoretical attention over the
years, many ambiguities and uncertainties in the thermodynamic proper-
ties of magnesian silicates have yet to be resolved. Owing to the high
sensitivity of calculated equilibrium temperatures and pressures to small
errors in the thermodynamic properties of minerals in the system MgO-
SiO2-H2O, relative uncertainties in the values of ~G~f and ~H~f for
these minerals must be of the order of a few tens of cal mole-1 or less
to reproduce all the various experimental observations. This require-
ment served as an implicit constraint in the retrieval calculations re-
ported below.
  Enstatite, forsterite, talc, anthophyllite, chrysotile, and antigorite.-~
Simultaneous consideration of high pressure/temperature experimental
data shown in figures 24 through 28 for


and


generated the values of ~G~f and ~H~f in table 8 for the minerals ap-
pearing in these reactions. The calculations were carried out using the
standard molal volumes, entropies, and heat capacity coefficients given
in the table for the minerals in reactions (116) through (121), together
with the thermodynamic data and equations of state for H2O and
SiO2(aq) summarized by Helgeson and Kirkham (1974a) and Walther and
Helgeson (1977). Wherever appropriate, provision was incorporated in
the calculations for the thermodynamic consequences of the clinoensta-
tite/enstatite phase transition.
  The Clapeyron slope of the univariant curve in figure 22 was used
to calculate the standard molal entropy of the clinoenstatite/enstatite
transition from density data reported by Stephenson, Sclar, and Smith
(1966). Similarly, the value of ~S~Pr,Tt given in table 8 for the enstatite/
