2


(1)	All Candidate Geologic Media: Chemistry-specific leach and
	corrosion rates, medium-specific repository stresses, and
	appropriate fluid fluxes are input into the data base.
(2)	Any Waste Type: The model is generally applicable to solidified
	nuclear wastes, including commercial and defense high-level waste,
	TRU waste and spent fuel. The theoretical basis for the thermal,
	mechanical, and leach models is valid for homogeneous, brittle and
	uniformly leachable solid wasteforms (with limited ability to model
	preferential leaching, see Section 7.1.4). Spent fuel clad
	assemblies and cermet wasteforms may not be accurately described by
	the model approximations, due to structural inhomogeneity and
	deviations from cylindrical symmetry. The leaching equations
	adopted in WAPPA, as well as special degradation mechanisms (e.g.,
	radiation damage, wasteform fracturing) are known to apply to glassy
	wasteforms, as well as to SYNROC and spent fuel ceramics.
(3)	Conventional Waste Package Designs and Geometry: The present logic
	of the model constrains the waste package states and configurations
	which can be handled. A conventional waste package configuration
	consists of a solid wasteform in a metal canister, an overpack
	separated from the canister by a gas gap or a stabilizer, and an
	outer flow and nuclide migration retardation barrier, such as a
	backfill. The metal canisters are considered to serve both as
	mechanical and corrosion barriers. Air or gas gaps present can be
	closed by mechanical large-scale deformation, or can become
	fluid-filled. The outer backfill can be a porous crushed-rock fill,
	but it cannot be an air gap (which does not transfer boundary
	stresses from the repository to the waste package). Also, two
	contiguous gas or fluid barriers are not permitted in the model.
	Other constraints on barrier configurations which the present WAPPA
	logic can treat are detailed in Section 2.1.2. The leach model
	solution logic (Section 7.2.7) permits treatment of special-case
	waste packages, e.g., without any metal barriers or backfill present
	at emplacement. A backfill, if present, is always assumed to be the
	outermost barrier. Thus, hole-sleeves placed outside the backfill,
