Appendix D. Crystallography and Chemistry
of Dachiardite Produced at 250~C
(Experiments DB7 and DB9)


Introduction

  Scanning electron microscope observations of the surface of the reacted wafers from experiments DB7
and DB8 indicated that the secondary minerals present were large enough to be plucked from the surface
of the wafer for more detailed characterization. This was performed by using a binocular microscope and a
dissecting needle dabbed with alcohol. One crystal mass was mounted on the end of a glass fiber and
prepared for XRD analysis using a Gandolfi camera. Many other crystal masses were plucked from the
surface of the wafer and used to prepare an epoxy grain mount. The crystals were confined within a
stainless steel nut that was floated in the partially set epoxy. By carefully polishing the grain mount, we
were able to remove the overlying epoxy and expose the crystals at the surface. This polished grain mount
was suitable for quantitative analyses using WDS techniques on the EMP.
  The dominant secondary mineral formed as a result of the hydrothermal interaction of this densely
welded, devitrified ashflow tuff (compositionally a high-silica rhyolite) with a dilute (Na + HCO3)
ground water at 250~C was the rare zeolite dachiardite. Dachiardite is a mordenite-group, high-silica
zeolite with a cation content similar to that of mordenite, with which it is commonly associated (Wise and
Tschernich, 1978). The type locality for dachiardite is a hydrothermally altered zone in a pegmatite near
San Piero di Campo, Elba, Italy (Bonardi, 1979). Its generalized compositon is given as


  The type locality mineral was rich in calcium (Ca/Na + K = 1.23). Since its original reporting by
D'Archiardi in 1906, this mineral has only been observed in a few other localities, but almost always as a
sodium-rich endmember. Sodium-rich daciardite has been reported in Alpe di Siusi, Italy (Alberti, 1975);
in Tsugawa, Japan (Yoshimura and Nakabayushi, 1977); in Washington and Oregon (Wise and
Tschernich, 1978); in Chichijima, Japan (Nishido et al., 1979); and in the Francon Quarry, Montreal,
Quebec (Bonardi et al., 1981). The only other locality with reportedly calcium-rich dachiardite is at Yellow-
stone National Park (Barger and Beeson, 1981; Barger et al., 1981; Barger, 1984), where dachiardite occurs
in hydrothermally altered, rhyolitic, pumiceous tuff and lava.
  The dachiardite structure has been studied by Gellens et al. (1982), but little is known about its cation
exchange properties, thermal stability (only the sodium-rich variety has been studied in any detail), etc.
There are no known reports of its synthesis from oxides, nor has it been reported as a run product of
hydrothermal rock-water interaction in any published laboratory experiments.

X-Ray Diffraction Identification and Calculation of Cell Constants Using
the Gandolfi Camera

  We plucked a rosette of crystals from the surface of the reacted wafer and mounted it on a glass rod
for exposure to CuK~ radiation within a Gandolfi camera. This camera rotates samples approximately 45~
during exposure, as well as rotating the film on the focal plane. The d-spacings of lines recorded on the
exposed film from the Gandolfi camera are listed in Table D1. As can be seen, the match to the type
locality dachiardite was excellent. A linear regression of the XRD data allowed the calculation of cell
constants (Appleman, 1963). The refined cell constants for the dachiardite produced in experiments DB7
and DB9 and those of the type locality were as follows.


28

