Centrifugal casting foundries can be found in most parts of the country,
but many of them cast ferrous parts (water mains, etc.) and are not equipped
to cast copper alloys. Wisconsin Centrifugal Inc. (Waukesha, WI) regularly
casts steels and copper alloys in about equal quantities. Two of their most
frequently called for alloys are aluminum bronze and copper-nickel. The inner
surfaces of such castings need not be cylindrical (although most centrifugal
castings are) but may be cast to net and near-net shape through use of cores.
This process could be used to produce containers with integrally cast internal
structures such as racks, spacers, stiffeners or partitions to separate fuel
assemblies.
  Centrifugal casting appears well suited to the manufacture of container
shells in copper alloys. High-purity copper would be difficult to cast, but
dilute alloys such as CDA 815 (1% chromium) could be produced. Potential
disadvantages of the process involve soundness or mechanical property
requirements placed on the products, although it should be noted that the
mechanical properties of quality centrifugal castings closely approach those
of wrought products. Some subsequent forging or HIPping may be required to
ensure gas tightness; however, this point must be addressed by experiment. If
the slight taper necessary on all centrifugal castings is objectionable,
removing it will require incremental added expense.

7.1.3 Extrusion

  Extrusion of tubular products is a standard industrial process; great
quantities of small-to-medium-diameter extruded pipe and tube are produced
throughout the world. The proposed container designs are essentially
large-diameter closed-end pipes, and extrusion is therefore also a potential
method for their production.
  Extruded hollows as large as the conceptual design containers are not
common since the equipment needed to produce them is very large and
specialized. However, such equipment is available in the U.S. and has been
used to manufacture large-diameter copper alloy piping. An example is the
32,000-metric-ton extrusion press located at the Cameron Iron Works plant in
Cypress, ~X. Cameron's extrusion press can extrude tubes of the diameters,
lengths, and thicknesses proposed in the NNWSI conceptual designs.


- 90 -
