notably, the generation of hydrogen peroxide produces positive corrosion
potential shifts for austenitic stainless steels. To compare the results
obtained for copper, it will be necessary to briefly discuss representative
results of irradiation on the corrosion behavior of 316L stainless steel. All
experiments reported below were performed at 30~C and at a gamma dose rate of
approximately 3 ~ 106 rad/h.
  The more oxidizing environment produced under gamma irradiation shifts the
corrosion potentials of austenitic stainless steels in the positive direction,
as shown in Fig. 24 in concentrated J-13 water. The "on" in this figure
refers to lowering of the cell into the center of the gamma sources (pencils
of cobalt-60), and "off" refers to raising the cell 1.3 to 1.5 m above the
sources, where the cell was shielded by intervening water. Several "on/off"
cycles are shown. We observed similar positive potential shifts upon
imposition of the gamma field for AISI 316L in more highly concentrated
groundwater (100X) and in the unaltered J-13 well water. Similar effects were
noted on irradiated specimens of 304L in these environments. The corrosion
potential shifts under all of these conditions were typically 150-200 mV for
both materials.
  In the previous study, several experiments were performed that indicated
that H2O2 was responsible for the corrosion potential shifts shown in
Fig. 25. In one test, successive additions of a 30% H2O2 solution were
made to an unirradiated J-13 solution in which a freshly prepared AISI 316L
electrode was immersed. In this figure, a one-drop addition to the solution
represents a concentration increase of approximately 0.5 mM, which is near the
0.14-mM concentration we measured for hydrogen peroxide in irradiated solution
after 3.5 h of exposure, using the titanium oxalate method (Sellers, 1980).
It can be seen that the potential shift observed following the addition of the
first drop is near the bottom end of the range of potential shifts observed
under radiolysis (150-200 mV). Successive additions of hydrogen peroxide (at
breaks in the curve) yield smaller potential jumps than the initial addition
on a per-drop basis, indicating the tendency toward an eventual saturation
point. These results support the theory that the production of hydrogen
peroxide under radiolysis leads to the long-term potential shifts seen in
austenitic stainless steels.
  Although some of the general features (e.g., positive corrosion potential
shifts) are similar, the behavior of copper in gamma-irradiated environments
differs from that of stainless steel. Figure 26 shows the corrosion potential


- 73 -
