in real operating times (~~ 40 yr) at temperature in BWRs because of the domination of the low-
activation energy process at temperatures less than approximately 350~C. However, as
discussed in the paper by Smith, 1975 on diffusion in 316 stainless steel, the grain boundary
diffusion mechanism operates only over a limited area so that the absolute amount of material
moved by this mechanism is small and becomes smaller as the temperature decreases. This is in
accord with the decreasing degree of sensitization measured at the lower temperatures.
Another consideration for the vanishing amount of low temperature sensitization at BWR
operating temperatures (288~C) and lower is that the growth rate of the carbide becomes
controlled by the reaction kinetics forming the carbide at the austenite/carbide interface, and
this is presumably a slow process at low temperatures (<250~C). Thus, arguments can be made
that would hasten the sensitization effect at low temperatures with respect to extrapolations
made from higher temperature data (diffusion along grain boundaries and along dislocation
pipes in very heavily strained material), and arguments can be made that would retard the
effect (interface control vs. diffusion control). Figure 5 indicates that if sensitization were to
occur at all, it would be evident in a few to several years at temperatures in the range 200-
300~C. This time period lies within the realm of experimental practicality.

6.4 Environmental Effects on IGSCC Susceptibility

  In analysis of IGSCC, a sensitized microstructure is considered necessary for the
phenomenon to occur in the absence of crevices. The chemical environmental conditions are also
important. The phenomenon has been studied mostly under the thermal and chemical
environmental conditions relevant to BWR coolant (250-300~C high-purity water on the order
of 1 Mohm-cm resistivity, under pressure, with varying oxygen contents, usually ranging from 2
to 8 ppm). The general conclusion from this work is that the stronger the oxidizing potential of
the environment, the greater the susceptibility for IGSCC in sensitized materials. The work of
Fujita et al. (1981) indicated that gamma radiation (4.5 ~ 104 rads/hr) further increased the
stress corrosion susceptibility of sensitized AISI 304 in high-purity water. They used the slow
strain rate test to determine the SCC susceptibility and found that the fractures were all
intergranular.

  Unlike other corrosion degradation modes on stainless steel, susceptibility toward
IGSCC is probably not so strongly affected by just the chloride ion. (Sulfate ions and heavy
metal cations in small concentrations, as well as chloride ion, appear to favor IGSCC on
susceptible materials in BWR environments.) Many theories of SCC consider a surface pit or


43
