3. CANDIDATE MATERIALS FOR WASTE PACKAGE CONTAINERS

  The set of materials selected as candidates for waste package containers in the tuff
repository has undergone some evolution over the course of the NNWSI Project, and it is helpful
to review the history of selection.

  Initially, the NNWSI Project selected AISI 304L stainless steel as its reference
material and a relatively thin-walled design for its containers. A number of factors contributed
to these choices. First of all, it was known that there would be no significant lithostatic or
hydrostatic pressure on the containers if emplaced in tuff above the water table. Therefore,
thick walls would not be necessary for the prevention of buckling, as is the case for most other
proposed deep geologic sites. This situation seemed to lend itself to use of a thin, corrosion-
resistant material rather than a thicker, corrosion-allowance material. Secondly, the
Savannah River Plant had already selected AISI 304L stainless steel as the reference material
for borosilicate glass pour canisters for its defense waste. It appeared likely at that time (and
has since been established as policy by the Federal government) that defense waste and
commercial waste would be emplaced in the same repository. NNWSI's initial proposal was
thus to use the pour canisters as the containment barriers for defense waste, and to fabricate
containers of the same material (AISI 304L stainless steel) for the spent fuel. Past experience
with austenitic stainless steels in hot air and dry steam environments had been very
satisfactory, and it appeared that this material would serve well in the unsaturated tuff
environment at temperatures above the boiling point.

  The process by which AISI 304L stainless steel was selected as the reference material
also resulted in the selection of three other alternatives: AISI 321, AISI 316L, and Alloy 825.
These were chosen for their increased resistance to particular types of corrosion, should this be
found necessary after more detailed testing, particularly if extensive contact with an aqueous
phase was found to be likely, or if the environment turned out to be more severe than
anticipated. We also selected AISI 1020 carbon steel as a candidate for borehole liners, should
they be found to be necessary to enhance retrievability.

  Initially, the selection process involved the evaluation of 17 commercial alloys
(Russell et al., 1983) according to the criteria of mechanical properties, weldability, corrosion
resistance, and cost. We considered all four to be equally important. Using projections of
available corrosion data to the repository environment as we understood it, we ranked the 17


5
