- 24 -
           Although the factors of importance to SCC are well known 
qualitatively, there are no models available which allow a reliable 
quantitative prediction of the possibility of SCC or time of failure.  
Moreover, it has been stated that even the considerable amount of 
empirical data available is generally inadequate in attempting to esti-
mate the probability of failure(45).   On the other hand, there are many 
successful practical applications of ~ stainless steels where both 
chlorides and stresses near the yield stress are present.   It is diffi-
cult therefore to define upper limits of the various parameters below 
which safe operation can be assumed.

            Truman has pointed out in a survey of service failures that 
most failures occurred at temperatures > 70~C, although the same author 
has clearly demonstrated SCC in 304 stainless steel at 60~C in an 
aqueous solution of 10 000 ~g/g NaCl at a pH of 2(45).  Other results 
indicate that SCC can occur with very low chloride levels (< 2 ~g/g) in 
aerated water, although deaerated water is considerably less aggres-
sive(41).   However, even in relatively pure environments, concentrating 
effects due to reflux mechanisms,or at crevices,can further promote and 
accelerate SCC.  Stress levels often approach the yield stress in many 
as-fabricated components, but it is also known that SCC can occur at 
lower stress levels, with the possibility of a threshold value, for 
given conditions, below which SCC will not occur.  Experimentally 
measured values of this stress for specific conditions are difficult to 
apply generally, and, moreover, the levels of stress involved in a 
practical situation cannot be determined simply.

            Finally, it is interesting to note that Sandia workers have 
eliminated the 300 series type stainless steels from their list of 
candidate alloys for waste and fuel immobilization containers for the 
Waste Isolation Pilot Plant because of the likelihood of SCC in the salt 
environment(46).
