     In the repository, the maximum temperature at which leaching 
could occur will be that of the surface of the glass, i.e. 90~C.  
Actual maximum temperatures would probably be 2-3~C lower 
(J. D. Osnes, private communication) because the presence of 
moisture would raise the thermal conductivity of the backfill.  
Also, in an actual repository, the canisters might be farther 
apart, resulting in cooler temperatures. The configuration 
(Figure 4) used in the calculation, deliberately placed the 
canisters as close together as practical, for drilling and loading.

     Table 12 also shows the calculated decrease in temperature at 
long times due to decay of the radionuclides.  At 100 years the 
leaching temperature has decreased to 55~C.  At 1000 years the 
estimated temperature is approximately 40~C.17,18

 Ground Water Compositions

     The detailed composition of the ground water that will come in 
contact with the waste canister in a repository depends on the rock 
type and on the specific site of the repository.  Thus, an exact 
ground water composition will not be known until the repository 
site is chosen and characterized.  However, reasonable compositions 
based on analyses of the ground waters in salt, granite and other 
potential repositories are available.  These compositions are given 
in Table 14.

     Two compositions are suggested for a salt ground water.  
Composition A resulted from analysis of brine inclusions obtained 
from a bedded salt formation in New Mexico.16 These inclusions 
were from a potash zone and thus contained a relatively large 
amount of potassium.  Similar compositions have been obtained from 
a salt formation in Kansas.  Brine B was obtained by saturating an 
aqueous solution with salt obtained from the 820 m level at the 
Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP) site near Carlsbad, New Mexico.  
The appearance of only small amounts of potassium and magnesium in 
the solution is in agreement with analyses of the rock salt itself.  
Composition A has been used by more researchers, since this compo-
sition is recommended in the MCC standard leach tests.19 Because of 
the presence of potassium and magnesium, this composition is repre-
sentative of most possible salt repositories.  However, composition 
B should be used for tests specific to WIPP.

     The granitic ground water composition in Table 14 is from a 
granite formation in Sweden.20 This sample was obtained at a depth 
of 900 m.  Comparison with recent analysis of a granitic ground 
water obtained at 420 m in the United States shows reasonable 
agreement.21  The major cations are Na, Ca, and Si.  The major 
anions are SO4~, HCO3~, and Cl~.
- 31 -
