coaxially in a filtrate collection shell. The material to be
filtered is pumped into the heads of the shell and passed through
the inside of the porous tube. A filter cake is developed on the
inner wall until an arbitrary pressure differential is reached. A
60 psi cake differential was used during the testing. The filter
contained 0.5 micron pores and a 0.3 sq ft filter area.

  Two tests were run with the standard filtration arrangement.
Both filter cake were about 50% solids and discharged easily from
the filter tube. A second setup used a centrifugal pump recircula-
tion loop within the feed loop. Filtration rates were comparable
although a slightly lower pressure drop was observed across the
filter cake. The discharged cake was still 50 wt % but was much
smoother and less viscous. The average filtrate rate was
0.14 gpm/sq ft of filter area.

	Oberlin APF

  The APF is a low maintenance filter. The upper platten is
lowered by an air cylinder and seated firmly by an air diaphragm.
The material to be filtered is metered into the space between the
upper platten and the filter media. Air pressure is applied until
a "dry" filter cake is achieved. The filter media is indexed and
the cake releases to a catch bin.

  Several filter media were tested with a small laboratory
pressure filter. All media consisted of a textile woven at various
weights. Four materials were tested, Tyvek~~ (Du Pont), a broken
twill weave, rayon, and a Teflon~~ coated polyester. Filter cakes
between 31 and 42 wt % were produced.

  After initial laboratory filter tests a 2.4 ft2 APF was tested
using a polypropylene filter media. Filter pressure differential
was set at 30 psi after cake development. A filtrate flow rate of
about 1 gpm was attained. Cake thickness was about 8 millimeters
and 35-37% solids were attained with the 30 psi differential.

  Although the APF appears to be a reliable machine, significant
modification would be needed to allow remote operation. The heavy
dependance of the APF on elastomeric materials for seals, pressure
diaphragms, etc. raises questions as to service life in the high
beta-gamma environment.

	Sharples Centrifuge

  Four different operating conditions were tested with a
Sharples centrifuge as shown in Table 73.


- 279 -
