tungsten carbide jet plates.  No wear was visible on the blasted
plates after 59 hours of blasting.  However, the blasting
efficiency of the slurry decreased rapidly after a new slurry batch
was introduced and it leveled out at less than 10% of the original
efficiency.  These effects are shown in Figure 65.  Because of this
deterioration of blasting efficiency, the 158 hours of testing was
equivalent to 44 hours of blasting with virgin slurry.  Each blast-
ing nozzle will be slurry blasting for ~15 minutes per canister.
Therefore, this test is equivalent to more than 4-1/2 months of
canister decontamination in the DWPF, if one canister decontami-
nation chamber is used exclusively.

     The throat of the tungsten carbide nozzle was measured with a
hole gauge before, during, and after the test.  The throat remained
at 0.381 inches throughout the test.  The weight of the nozzle was
1393.9 grams before the test and 1389.4 grams after the test.  This
is a loss of only 0.3%.  Therefore, the life of a tungsten carbide 
nozzle in the DWPF should be measured in years.  Boride Products, 
Inc., manufacturers a boron carbide nozzle, No. BLV-E6, that is
supposed to have 3X the life of tungsten carbide.  However, because
of the success of the tungsten carbide nozzle, the boron carbide 
nozzle was not tested.

     A total of 28 points were marked on the test pipe as shown in
Figure 64.  These points were checked with an automation industries
ultrasonic digital thickness meter, Model UTM 110 before, during, 
and after the test.  The average wall thickness was about 0.090
inch, but the readings varied about 0.006 inch during the test.
There was no apparent trend to the drift, so it was assumed that if
there was any pipe wear, it was less than 0.006 inch.  If further
pipe wear tests are conducted, it is recommended that a standard
close to the pipe wall thickness be used as well as the zero
standard for calibration.  Pipe wear due to frit/water slurries at
DWPF velocities appears not to be a major problem.  Life should be
years.  However, additional tests will be required to determine
pipe wear more closely.

Decontamination of Canyon Cranes

     Introduction and Summary
     
     Decontamination techniques for canyon cranes have been
surveyed.  High-pressure Freon~~ (Du Pont) blasting is the most
attractive process available for this application.  Laboratory-
scale tests with radioactive specimens have demonstrated its
effectiveness.  Large-scale SRP testing of this technique is
recommended.
- 155 -
