chemical interaction could play a considerable role in the way the
cladding will behave with respect to stress corrosion cracking by creating
inhomogeneous stress distributions on the outer surface of the cladding,
etc.(39a) In fact, these features will be included in the experiments
since actual spent fuel cladding materials will make up the experimental
samples as discussed under Experiment Design.

F. CONCLUDING SUMMARY

Of the three environments that were described in the previous section, the
two aqueous corrosion environments are given the highest priority for
experimental investigation because they last much longer (an order of
magnitude or more), and because there are many more potential corrosion
mechanisms which can operate in a water environment. In addition, data
from dry storage studies indicate that a high temperature gas environment
should cause very little degradation of the fuel rods. As was pointed
out, however, this initial high temperature gas exposure of the cladding
may affect its response to subsequent corrosion environments. This
possibility will be investigated further.

Zirconium and its alloys resist corrosion by forming a protective oxide
film. Chemical environments in which the film is attacked cause
corrosion, and, conversely, when the film can form, little or no corrosion
is observed. In general, high temperature waters and ground waters with pH
and Eh values typical of tuff environments are not very corrosive to
zirconium or its alloys. However, the fluoride ion that is present in
typical tuff ground waters, or certain chloride salts that could form
there, are potentially corrosive to spent fuel cladding, particularly if
they become concentrated by some mechanism. This conclusion highlights
the importance of using tuff-equilibrated J-13 well water which contains
some fluoride and chloride ions to simulate the ground water that will
eventually infiltrate a breached canister in the tuff repository. In
addition, an experiment investigating the resistance of cladding to a
concentrated ground water is recommended for inclusion into the present
program.


30
