3.	An equivalent amount of hydrogen ions would be produced in the solution,
	tending to lower the pH against the buffering action of the dissolved
	bicarbonate as well as that of the rock and glass, where present.
4.	Colloidal Fe(III) iron-containing substances would become suspended in
	the solution as a result of vessel wall reactions.

3.4 GAS PHASE

	If we use the gas composition at 90~C in Table 7 and assume that the
gamma rays would interact with the species listed in proportion to their
fractions of the total electron density (a valid assumption for Compton
interactions, which are dominant here), we find that the energy should be
absorbed in about the following proportions:
	N2 - 57%, H2O - 26%, and O2 - 17%, other gases negligible.
	The production rates of the initial radiolytic products (ions, free
radicals, excited molecules, and electrons) can be determined by weighting the
yields, G, for the pure gases by these proportions. The yield (in radiation
chemistry) is defined as the number of molecules of a particular species that
are created or destroyed when 100 eV of energy is absorbed from radiation. GX
represents the primary yield of species X, i.e., the yield evaluated before
any subsequent reactions take place. G(X) represents the final or observed
yield of species X in an experiment in which reactions may have occurred after
the initial production of the species. G(X) is measured, and GX is inferred
or measured in experiments designed such that GX will be equal to G(X).
	Willis and Boyd have summarized available data to evaluate the yields for
the various species formed in irradiation of inorganic gases.25 For the gases
that are important here, the species include N~~, N+, N, N~~, O~~, O+, O,
O~~, H2O+, H+, OH+, H, OH, H2O*, H2, and e-. Some of these species are
produced in more than one energy state, so the total description of the system
becomes quite complex.
	The ionic species produced in the irradiation would undergo a series of
reactions with other species present.27,28 The results would be additional
free radical and molecular species. The free radicals in turn would interact
with each other and with other species to produce HNO3, N2O, and O3, as
observed by Jones.6 Intermediate species in this process are thought to
include NO, NO2, and possibly N2O4. (NO3 and N2O5 are believed to be formed


19
