migrate. The kinetic diameter of chabazite is 4.3 A and that of mordenite is
3.9 A (Ref. 33). The kinetic diameter for the zeolite clinoptilolite, which
is present in the tuff of the Calico Hills of Yucca Mountain tuff G-1-1436,
is 3.5 A (Ref. 33). The channel opening in a fully hydrated montmorillonite
clay (the principal adsorbing mineral in G-1-1883 and G-1-1952 tuff) is
approximately 5.6 A (Ref. 33). Therefore, a larger diffusivity in montmoril-
lonite is expected. Until more complete crystal size distributions are
measured in these tuffs, this difference cannot be observed. The estimated
diffusivities show that the mass transfer rates observed for cesium,
strontium, and barium sorption on Yucca Mountain tuff are consistent with a
diffusion-limited ion-exchange mechanism.
  The sorptive properties of Yucca Mountain tuff for the simple cations of
strontium, cesium, and barium are consistent with a simple ion-exchange
mechanism. The uptake of these radionuclides by intact samples of tuff can
be described by matrix diffusion with a reversible adsorption reaction. The
mass transfer kinetics is also consistent with diffusion-limited ion
exchange, where the rate-determining step is diffusion into the channels
within crystals of zeolites and clays. The sorption ratios for these cations
on intact tuff are in excellent agreement with the sorption ratios that were
determined for crushed tuff during batch technique experiments. This agree-
ment is primarily the result of the small crystal size observed in SEM
studies; that is, crushing to 100-~m grain size will not break individual
crystals.
  The actinides show a change in sorption ratio on the time scale of up to
12 weeks.11 In addition, the actinides show very little or no dependence of
the sorption ratio on the mineralogic composition of the tuff, in contrast to
the strong dependence observed for cesium, strontium, and barium.11 On the
basis of the above interpretation of the sorption of simple cations, the
actinides are (1) not sorbed through a cation-exchange mechanism, (2) present
as a species that is too large to fit into the intracrystalline space in
clays and zeolites, or (3) both. The apparent rates of sorption are too slow
to be diffusion limited, and the sorption ratios do not correlate with
minerals with high cation-exchange capacities.


43
