6
1.4 PROTECTING AGAINST HUMAN INTERFERENCE

      The protection afforded by the repository design, the waste package, and 
the repository site is expected to adequately mitigate the consequences of the 
release of radionuclides to ground water, whether the ground-water/waste 
contact is due to natural or human induced causes.   Insofar as analyses of 
hypothetical systems show the likelihood of human interference to be greater 
than the likelihood of natural events or processes breaching a repository 
system, however, prudence dictates that methods directed at reducing the 
likelihood of such interference be evaluated.
       The general societal trend of continuous technical advancement makes it 
unlikely that human interference could be precluded by design measures; i.e., 
technical advances are likely to render protective systems put in place by one 
generation vulnerable to the technology of subsequent generations.   If future 
generations elect to apply their technology to gaining access to the waste 
repository, they are likely to succeed with reasonable planning and at con-
siderable cost (see Section 2, ground rule 2).  The U.S. Department of Energy 
has taken the position that:  ". . . although this generation bears the 
responsibility for protecting future societies from the waste that it creates, 
future societies must assume the responsibility for any risks which arise from 
deliberate and informed acts which they choose to perform" (DOE, 1980, 
p. II-189).   However, at the heart of the human interference issue is the 
concept of releases from the repository taking place because those societies 
that caused or could be affected by the releases were uninformed.
       This task force endorses the Department's position and, therefore, adopts
as its main focus the reduction of the likelihood of uninformed human inter-
ference with repository systems.   There are three primary mechanisms for 
reducing the likelihood of human interference.   These are (1) reducing the 
incentive for human interference, (2) designing the repository to increase the 
difficulty of interference, and (3) communicating the existence of the reposi-
tory to generations far into the future.   For the reasons discussed in this 
report, the task force focused on the third mechanism.   The approach and the 
logic used by the task force to analyze the problem and to arrive at its 
recommendations are discussed in Section 2 of this report.
