         FTP  - Fluid Transport Properties (relative to hydrology,
                radionuclide distributions influenced by distribution
                coefficients, etc.).

         AW   - Aquifer Water (hydrologic factors in aquifer flows).

         SW   - Surface Water (hydrologic factors in surface flows).
Inspection will show that this is not a comprehensive list of the Rate Equations and variables.  
It is given to indicate the general idea and to stimulate searches for the relevant variables and 
their interdependencies.

         Closer inspection of Figure 2A.2 will disclose various types of potential Feedback 
Loops.  Possibly, the most conspicuous type of feedback is of the sort already described (e.g., 
mechanical work-heat cycles).  Another fundamental kind is the effect of a Level quantity on the 
rate of change of that quantity.  In one way or another this form of feedback affects every Level.  
For example, the amount of heat stored in the reference system affects the rate of heat loss and 
hence the subsequent heat quantity.  The amount of mechanical deformation (relative to some 
initial reference configuration) performed on a system influences the mechanical states and 
properties of the rocks of the system, hence the future mechanical work rates.  Similar statements 
are true of fracturing and production of rock openings.  Groundwater quantities influence future 
Level states via consequent hydrologic flow rates.  Radionuclide quantities in solution influence 
future rates of incorporation by depletion of the finite source, and so on.

         Many types of indirect Feedback Loops can be found by careful study of diagrams 
like Figure 2A.2.  Formally, all closed circuits in the directions of Information Arrows represent 
Feedback Loops.  There is virtually an infinity of involutions and convolutions of these possible 
connections.  The problem forced on us by questions of radioactive waste containment in geological 
media is to find the dominant loops and to understand their magnitude-time relations as regards 
geological stability.  Diligent and repetitive construction of such Systems Diagrams, Information 
Lines, and Feedback Loops assists these hierarchical sorting processes.

         Only two indirect Feedback Loops will be mentioned as type examples.  The first of 
these is very simple to understand, but it is the most indirect and is quantitatively contingent 
on some form of numerical solution of all system variables which has not been accomplished to 
this date.  Starting with the Heat Level on the lower right of the diagram, Information Lines can 
be traced through the entire diagram and back to the Heat Level.  That is, the amount and distri-
bution of heat generation by radioactivity simply depends on what happens to the radionuclides other 
than simple decay in their original configurations. From the standpoint of the overall system 
this represents a Negative Feedback Loop tending toward thermal equilibrium.  This conclusion, 
however, should not encourage complacency concerning other forms of potential thermal feedback.
100
