~ausing release is presently uncertain: they are energetically weak phenomena in the context of
the reference site, but they may contribute indirectly to conditions favoring release. Events listed
under Class B are quite different: only items (20) and (22), inadvertent intrusion (by drilling, mining,
or hydrofracture) and explosions, respectively, would be capable of initiating release. In the latter
event, a nuclear explosion of extremely large yield would be required and to exhume the waste would
require a direct hit over a repository located at depths less than those currently being considered.
Hydraulic stresses caused by man's activity (21) may only accelerate (or inhibit) other conditions
that would directly lead to release of radionuclides from the repository.

  Finally, the only features among the Category IV list that are associated directly with a
release are Items (23) and (26): undiscovered voids and hydraulically interconnected fracture systems
and undiscovered, man-made penetrations. The other features (24), (25), and (27) are only factors
to be considered in assessing conditions that favor release.

  Thus, there appear to be 12 potential causes of failure (underlined in preceding paragraphs)
and 15 events, processes, or features that may influence or catalyze the potential causes of release,
but may not initiate release when acting alone.

  The 12 potential causes of release can be further organized into two groups:
  1. Those events and processes that are initiated by the excavation of the repository
     and the placing of heat-producing radioactive waste within it.

  2. Those events, processes, or features that could initiate or contribute to release
     of radionuclides (by excavation or solution) in ways that are independent of the
     presence of the repository.

Only solutioning (7) and subsidence/caving (14) are common to the two groups. Group 1 can
reasonably be called a self-induced release because the processes within it are initiated by the
creation of the facility and because they also contribute to a failure of the facility. On the other
hand, the processes and events in group 2 are potential release modes that are, in first approxima-
tion, indifferent to the presence of the repository.

  An appeal to physical and geological causality gives the most obvious release mechanisms
in groups 1 and 2. A summary of the processes that contribute to self-induced release are shown
in Table 2. 4. 1; release mechanisms that are roughly independent of the repository are listed in
Table 2. 4. 2.


47
