2. 6 Sample Calculations of External Mode Probabilities

  A computer code has been written to implement the competing risk formalism and the failure
rate models described in Section 2. 5. The purpose of the code is simply to illustrate the feasibility
of numerical calculations with the formalism at this stage of development.

  Results of a sample calculation with the code are plotted in Figure 2. 5. 4, which gives the
logarithms (base 10) of the probabilities of release by way of the external release modes versus
the logarithm of elapsed time since site closure. The failure rates derived in Subsections 2. 5. 4. 1
through 2. 5. 4. 7 were used in the sample calculation: the values used for the appropriate parame-
ters in the sample calculation are also the nominal parameter values quoted in the subsection
treating each failure rate. A cut-off probability of 10-6 was used to delimit the ordinate of
Figure 2. 5. 4. Thus any mode that does not achieve a computed probability greater than 10-6
within 106.2 years is not represented on the plot. This was the case for erosion and meteorite
impact.

  No particular conclusions concerning long-term repository stability should be drawn from
the results that appear in Figure 2. 5. 4. Note that these estimates of probability are highly sen-
sitive to changes in certain of the parameter values. In turn, the ranges of the parameter values
are uncertain and may be large. These example calculations do, however, point out certain in-
consistencies between the geological assumptions made about the reference site and our choice of
parameters used to illustrate the models. The relatively high probabilities achieved for modes (1),
(2) and (4) (respectively: boreholes, voids and fractures, faulting) after 104 years are consequences
of a high rate of salt solutioning that is implicit in our choice of aquifer discharge rate and areas
for the several kinds of penetrations of the shale barriers. If such a high rate of solutioning had
prevailed at the reference site in the past, then the hypothetical salt lens in which the repository
is placed would probably not be present. The inconsistency serves to emphasize the point that we
are dealing with models that require real data to test their validity.

  The most sensitive parameters in the present model appear to be the ones specifying a
volumetric removal rate of salt from solution cavities initiated through undiscovered boreholes,
undiscovered voids, explosions and faulting. The rates of salt removal were thought to be con-
servative (overestimates) when assigned. However, this presumption may be wrong. In addition,
the conceptual assumptions made in the models of salt solutioning may be incorrect (see Section
2. 5. 3 for a discussion of the salt solution models).


82

