Formulation of well-defined meaningful benchmark problems is a difficult proc-
ess that is benefited when preliminary testing is done by those not originally 
involved with formulation.  Ambiguities can be discovered and resolved early by 
this preliminary testing, which allows the problem definition to be improved 
before all project teams spend time devising their own, typically different, 
resolutions.

    The seven Level One cases that were presented and discussed at the first 
workshop follow.  A brief description of their status after the workshop is 
also given.

  Case 1 -- transient flow from a borehole in a fractured permeable
            medium.  Eight project teams including BWIP and SRP presented 
            preliminary results that indicated the problem was well formu-
            lated.  Some variations were suggested (e.g., considering flux 
            into the matrix and fractures; additional permeability con-
            trasts).

  Case 2 -- steady-state flow in a rock mass intersected by fracture
            zones.  Eleven project teams, including BWIP and SRP, pre-
            sented preliminary results.  There were some discrepancies 
            probably related to the interpretation scheme (quadratic vs. 
            linear) used.  Some variations were suggested as desirable 
            (e.g., considering potential plots, streamlines and travel 
            times, flows, mass balance and/or error analysis, and param-
            eter variations to differentiate the split between matrix and 
            fracture dominance).  The secretariat was charged with speci-
            fying streamline starting locations and mass balance measures.

  Case 3 -- saturated-unsaturated flow in a layered sequence of rocks. 
            Five project teams presented preliminary results.  This 
            problem posed difficulties for all project teams because of
            ambiguities concerning initial and boundary conditions and
            unrealistic characteristic curves for relative permeability
            and capillary pressure versus saturation.  The NNWSI project
6
