     The selection of multiattribute-utility theory for analyzing the site-
recommendation problem is based on three advantages of the theory. First, it 
has an explicitly stated philosophical and logical basis for the methodology 
that is appropriate for the site-recommendation problem (see Merkhofer, 
1986).  Second, it separates the factual information and judgments about the 
performance and impacts of a repository at the various sites from value judg-
ments about the desirability of those possible impacts.  And third, both of 
these sets of information and judgments are made explicit for peer review and 
public review.
 
     Crucial to multiattribute utility analysis are the sensitivity analyses 
that are conducted.  The sensitivity analyses vary over reasonable ranges any 
of the inputs that could substantially affect the relative desirability, and 
hence the initial order of preference, of the nominated sites.  Their purpose 
is to ascertain whether specific judgments or data are crucial to the conclu-
sions drawn from the analysis.  They thus suggest where further attention and 
effort should be focused.  

     In spite of its advantages, a formal analysis cannot address every aspect 
of the complex siting decision faced here.  Excluded from the analysis, for 
example, is consideration of the advantages of a diversity of rock types.  Be-
cause this or any methodology is capable of providing only a partial ac-
counting of the many factors important to the site-recommendation decision, 
its results will not form the sole basis for that decision.

     Regarding the design of the methodology, one additional point should be 
made; it is related to the concept of the diversity of rock types.   The method 
of analysis used here evaluates the overall desirability of each nominated 
site, not the desirability of combinations of sites.  The evaluation of all 
possible combinations of sites, each of the possible combinations being con-
sidered as an alternative, would require an extended, more-difficult form of 
analysis known as a "portfolio analysis."  As explained by Edwards and Newman 
(1982), such sophistication is rarely used in portfolio problems.  Instead, 
the more-common procedure is to evaluate the options (i.e., sites) by methods 
similar to the one described here and then to examine the resulting set of 
choices to determine their acceptability as a portfolio.  This is exactly the 
procedure outlined in Section 1.2.4.       

     The sections that follow present a brief overview of the methodology 
(Section 2.2), explain the process by which it was implemented (Section 2.3), 
and discuss the relationship of the methodology to the DOE's siting guidelines 
(Section 2.4). 

                         2.2 OVERVIEW OF THE ANALYSIS 

     The logic underlying multiattribute utility analysis is relatively  
straightforward, although the specific steps and the nomenclature may be un-
familiar to some readers.  (A glossary is provided at the end of the report.)  
The basic premise is that the relative desirability of a site is measured by 
the extent to which siting objectives are achieved.  The siting objectives are 
derived directly from the DOE's siting guidelines (see Section 2.4).  The 
degree to which siting objectives are achieved is indicated by the performance 
2-2
