measured in millions of dollars. The specific Ci and Ki values that were
assessed are given in Table 4-7.

  The factors 121 and -1/200 in Equation 4-1 are necessary to scale the
utility from 0 to 100, where 100 is chosen to represent a particularly desira-
ble set of impacts for all performance measures and 0 represents a particularly
undesirable set of impacts for all performance measures. For this purpose, the
ranges of the performance measures listed in Table 4-7 were chosen to be broad
enough to include all possible impacts for the sites being evaluated. The
utilities of 0 and 100 are assigned by Equation 4-1 to the sets of impacts
represented by the highest levels and the lowest levels in Table 4-7, respec-
tively. Because the utility function is additive and because the component
utility function for repository cost is linear, it is particularly easy to
interpret units, referred to as "utiles," of the multiattribute utility func-
tion (Equation 4-1) in terms of equivalent costs. Specifically, one utile is
equivalent in value to 200 million dollars.

  To get an intuitive feeling for the Ci and the Ki terms in Equation
4-1, some examples are helpful. The component disutility function C1 for
worker cancer fatalities from the repository is simply x1, which represents
the number of such fatalities. For aesthetic impacts, the component disutil-
ity function C9 represents the percentage of the highest level of aesthetic
impact described in Table 4-2. The highest level is level 6, so C9(6) = 100.
Since C9(4) = 33, as shown in Table 4-7, aesthetic impacts of level 4 are
assessed as being one-third as detrimental as impacts of level 6 (i.e., 33 is
one-third of 100).

  The value tradeoff K8 is 4, which means that the impact of one statis-
tical public fatality due to a transportation accident is deemed as undesir-
able as an additional cost of 4 million dollars. The value tradeoff K9 = 1
means that the impact of an additional 1 percent of aesthetic degradation is
deemed as undesirable as an additional cost of 1 million dollars. The value
tradeoff K14 = 1 means that a million dollars in transportation cost is
deemed equivalent to a million dollars in repository cost. That K13 = 1 is
by definition.

  The multiattribute utility function assessed in this problem can be inter-
preted as follows. In situations where there is uncertainty about the impacts,
the expected (i.e., average) utility can be used to appraise the relative
desirability of consequences (i.e., set of impact levels). Higher expected
utilities indicate preferred alternatives. In addition, the assessment de-
scribed in Appendix G indicates that the multiattribute utility function is
also a measurable-value function. Hence, differences in utility have a useful
interpretation. Namely, the relative differences in desirability between two
consequences can be measured by the differences in utility between those con-
sequences. Furthermore, the relative differences in desirability between two
alternatives can be measured by the differences in expected utilities between
those alternatives.

  To calculate the utility of a consequence with the utility function (Equa-
tion 4-1), clearly the only variable term is


4-18
