APPENDIX C

ASSUMPTIONS FOR WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM PARAMETERS
USED IN THE TOTAL SYSTEM LIFE CYCLE COST ANALYSIS

  This appendix provides the assumptions used in the analysis of the total
system life cycle costs (TSLCC). This information is for reference purposes
only and is not be considered as baselined information. (Updates of this
document will include details from this appendix in the main text, if
appropriate for baselining, and this appendix will provide data needed for
various system studies. While there are some minor differences between the
current TSLCC assumptions and statements contained elsewhere in this SRD,
future editions of the SRD will be prepared in conjunction with the
development of the TSLCC assumptions to assure consistency.)

I. Waste Assumptions

  A. Waste Type

     1.	Spent fuel generated by commercial nuclear reactor operations (no
	additional reprocessing of spent fuel is assumed).

     2. Spent fuel assembly skeletons and hardware wastes generated as a
	result of spent fuel consolidation.

     3.	On-site-generated low level wastes (costs for packaging wastes
	are included but disposal costs are not).

     4. Defense high-level waste (DHLW).

     5. The 640 MTU-equivalent of commercial high-level waste from West
	Valley, New York are not included in the analysis.

  B. Quantity of Spent Fuel

     1. Reference case: The Energy Information Administration (EIA) 1985
	mid-case projection of 126,642 MTU for cumulative spent fuel
	generation through the year 2020 is assumed. This projection
	assumes no increase in the nuclear fuel burnup level for the
	entire projection period.

     2. Decreased spent fuel generation: The EIA 1985 no new orders
	projection of 87,449 MTU (with no increased burnup) is assumed.

  C. Quantity of DHLW

     1. 16,000 canisters of DHLW are assumed to be accepted from 3
	sites: 9,000 canisters from the Savannah River Plant in South
	Carolina, 2,000 canisters from the Hanford site in the state of
	Washington,


-43-
