assembled by adding the contributions of each subdomain in turn to the
equation for a given cell. The primary reason for introducing the concepts of
elements and zones for assigning porous-medium properties is so that
porous-medium properties can be defined easily at the cell boundaries without
the need for harmonic-mean calculations.

  A numbering scheme local to the cell is used during coefficient cal-
culation and assembly. Figure 3.3 shows the subdomain local numbering from
one to eight. The six faces are numbered as shown in figure 3.3 and each face
is subdivided into four subdomain faces with numbers for the visible faces as
shown. For the cylindrical system, the corresponding volumes and faces are
numbered in figure 3.4.

  A common alternative method for constructing the mesh is to specify the
locations of the planes that form the cell walls. Their intersections form
the cells; then the node points are located in the center of each cell. This
is called a cell-centered or block-centered grid. One advantage of this grid
is that fewer cells are required to span a given simulation region, because
fractional cells do not appear at the boundaries.

  The point-distributed grid was selected for this simulator, because the
finite-difference spatial approximations to the dispersive terms in the flow
and transport equations are consistent and convergent for the point-
distributed grid under conditions of variable-grid spacing; whereas, these
approximations are not necessarily consistent and convergent for the cell-
centered grid. As shown by Settari and Aziz (1972, 1974), the local trunca-
tion error for the cell-centered grid has a term that does not necessarily
vanish as the grid spacing is refined. A second reason for selecting the
point-distributed grid is that the presence of nodes on the boundary surfaces
simplifies the treatment of certain boundary conditions. It is common to
approximate spatially distributed, aquifer properties as uniform zones. A
disadvantage of the point-distributed grid is that it is difficult to locate
the cell boundaries, so that they coincide with the zoned-property boundaries.
This difficulty can be avoided by making the properties uniform over an
element rather than a cell. This will be described in the parameter-
discretization section.


81
