1.  INTRODUCTION

The Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) recently conducted
geological and geophysical studies of the Mid Valley area at the Nevada Test
Site (NTS) in an attempt to develop a new underground nuclear testing area for
LLNL that would ideally accommodate tests up to 150 kt.  The currently used
Pahute Mesa testing area is located some distance from LLNL's Yucca Flat
facilities and is subject to winter weather conditions that sometimes delay
tests.  The Laboratory's Test Program felt that it could economically benefit
by developing a new site without these drawbacks.

First, the Laboratory assessed any potentially suitable locations at NTS,
relying heavily on the real estate availability study published by the United
States Geological Survey (USGS, Fernald, 1977).  Based on these data, we
determined that Mid Valley held the most promise as a potential alternative
testing area, but we found several important, unanswered questions concerning
its geological setting.  To answer these questions, we began an integrated
study of the Mid Valley area, including detailed analyses of the existing
geological and geophysical data, a seismic reflection program, an exploratory
drilling program, geologic field investigations, and geochemical analyses of
cuttings and surface outcrop samples.  This report documents the results of
the study.

Mid Valley is a basin approximately 6 km west of the Control Point (CP) at
the NTS.  It is about 10 km long, and its width varies from 3 to 7 km.  The
elevation of the valley ranges from 1260 m in the southeast to 1580 m in the
northwest.  It is surrounded by mountains whose elevations range up to
2100 m.  The Mid Valley area can be divided into a northern and a southern
region.  Based primarily on surface gravity data, we selected the southern
portion of Mid Valley as the most suitable for exploration because the
predicted depth to the Paleozoic rocks was the greatest.  Subsequent
discoveries indicate that the northern portion of the valley is probably deep
enough to be a testing area, but the study described here is mainly concerned
with the southern portion.
- 3 -
