    ~  estimated exposure time required to complete the tasks and the
       estimated doses anticipated

    ~  special instructions and equipment to minimize the exposure of   
       personnel to radiation and contamination  

    ~  protective clothing and equipment requirements  

    ~  authorization to perform the tasks  

    ~  exposure time, doses, and other information obtained during the  
       operation.   

Radiation Protection

       Procedures should be developed to provide guidance for activities 
specifically associated with radiation protection and ALARA.   These 
procedures should be carefully evaluated to ensure that appropriate 
radiation exposure control techniques are included.

       Procedures for control of radiation protection activities may be 
overlooked in exposure reduction efforts because of the functional 
expertise of the personnel to whom they are directed.   However, 
radiation exposures of the radiation protection personnel may constitute 
a significant portion of the total exposure received from an activity 
and may provide opportunities for exposure reduction to ALARA.   All 
procedures, the performance of which may involve receiving radiation 
exposure, should be evaluated for ALARA.   Radiation protection 
activities that should be evaluated include, but are not limited to:   

1.  routine surveys to determine radiation, contamination, and airborne 
    radioactivity status   

2.  surveys in high dose rate areas   

3.  any activity for which continuous radiological surveillance is 
    required   

4.  calibration of radiation protection instruments   

5.  personnel decontamination   

6.  sample collection and evaluation. 

      In some operations that use an SWP - RWP system for procedural 
control of work in radiation areas, the SWP or RWP for the radiation 
protection activities may be a general permit authorizing entry with 
few, if any, guidelines provided.   The specific activity authorized by 
the SWP or RWP should be identified, an ALARA review performed, and 
guidance provided in the procedure, if warranted, to ensure maintaining 
radiation exposures ALARA.   Personnel exposure to perform surveys of
15
