A.  INTRODUCTION

      Appendix I, "Numerical Guides for Design Objectives and Limiting Conditions for Operation 
to Meet the Criterion 'As Low As Is Reasonably Achievable' for Radioactive Material in Light-
Water-Cooled Nuclear Power Reactor Effluents," to 10 CFR Part 50 provides numerical guidance for 
radioactive effluent design objectives and technical specification requirements for limiting 
conditions of operation for light-water-cooled nuclear power plants.

   To implement Appendix I, the NRC staff has developed a series of guides that provide methods 
acceptable to the staff for the calculation of preoperational estimates of effluent releases, 
dispersion of the effluent in the atmosphere and different water bodies, and estimation of the 
associated radiation doses* to man.   This guide describes basic features of these calculational 
models and suggests parameters for the estimation of radiation doses to man from effluent releases.   
The methods used herein are general approaches that the NRC staff has developed for application 
in lieu of specific parameters for individual sites.   The use of site-specific values by the 
applicant is encouraged.  However, the assumptions and methods used to obtain these parameters 
should be fully described and documented.

       Portions of this guide supersede Regulatory Guide 1.42, Revision 1, "Interim Licensing 
Policy on as Low as Practicable for Gaseous Radioiodine Releases from Light-Water-Cooled Nuclear 
Power Reactors," which has been withdrawn.

B. DISCUSSION

      Appendix I to 10 CFR Part 50 provides guidance on the doses to members of the general 
public resulting from effluent releases that may be considered to be as low as is reasonably 
achievable.   This guide describes basic features of the calculational models and assumptions in 
use by the NRC staff for the estimation of doses.

       Appendix A of this guide describes suggested models and assumptions for calculating the 
estimated doses to man from discharges to the hydrosphere.   Appendix B of this guide describes 
suggested models and assumptions for calculating doses from noble gases discharged to the atmos-
phere, and Appendix C gives models and assumptions for estimating doses from radioiodines and 
other radionuclides released to the atmosphere.   Appendix D describes the models and assumptions 
for calculating population doses (man-rem and man-thyroid-rem) from radionuclide releases to the 
atmosphere and hydrosphere.   Appendix E presents tabular data pertaining to two or more of the 
other appendices.  Appendix F provides a discussion of, and derivation for, the I function used 
in computing gamma doses from elevated noble gas releases.

       In providing guidance for implementing Section II of Appendix I, the NRC staff has made use 
of the maximum exposed individual approach.  In this approach the numerical design objectives of 
Section II are compared to the calculated radiation exposures to maximum individuals in each of 
four age groups.

       The population is considered to be made up of infants (0 to 1 year), children (1 to 11 years), 
teenagers (11 to 17 years), and adults (17 years and older).   For the purpose of evaluating dose 
commitment, the maximum infant is assumed to be newborn, the maximum child is taken to be 4 years 
old, the maximum teenager is taken to be 14 years old, and the maximum adult is taken to be 
17 years old.

       Maximum individuals are characterized as "maximum" with regard to food consumption, occupancy, 
and other usage of the region in the vicinity of the plant site and as such represent individuals 
with habits representing reasonable deviations from the average for the population in general.
In all physiological and metabolic respects the maximum exposed individuals are assumed to have 
those characteristics that represent the averages for their corresponding age group in the general  
*~In this guide, the term "dose," when applied to individuals, is used instead of the more precise 
term "dose equivalent," as defined by the International Commission on Radiological Units and 
Measurements (ICRU).   When applied to the evaluation of internal deposition of radioactivity, 
the term "dose," as used here, includes the prospective dose component arising from retention 
in the body beyond the period of environmental exposure, i.e., the dose commitment.   The dose 
commitment is evaluated over a period of 50 years.
1.109-1
