infrequent and of short duration, atmospheric dispersion models and meteorological data 
applicable to the time of release should be considered. Use of annual average conditions for 
consideration of intermittent releases will be acceptable only if it is established that 
releases will be random in time.   Otherwise the method of evaluation of intermittent releases 
should follow the methodology outlined in Section 2.3.4 of NUREG-75/087 (Ref. 16).   This method 
uses an appropriate ~/Q probability level, as well as the annual average ~/Q, for the direction 
and point of interest being evaluated to provide the basis for adjustments reflecting more 
adverse diffusion conditions than indicated by the annual average.   These adjustments are 
applied to the annual average ~/Q and D/Q for the total number of hours associated with in-
termittent releases per year.   Detailed information for this calculation is given by Sagendorf 
and Goll (Ref.  17).   However, if intermittent releases are limited by technical specifications 
to periods when atmospheric conditions are more favorable than average for the site, annual 
average data and annual average dispersion models could be used.   For calculations of doses 
through ingestion pathways, particularly through the cow-milk pathway, meteorological data for 
only the grazing or growing season should be used.

D.   IMPLEMENTATION

The purpose of this section is to provide information to license applicants and licensees 
regarding the NRC staff's plans for implementing this regulatory guide.

This guide reflects current NRC staff practice.   Therefore, except in those cases in which 
the license applicant or licensee proposes an acceptable alternative method, the method described 
herein for complying with specified portions of the Commission's regulations will continue to be 
used in the evaluation of submittals for operating license or construction permit applications 
until this guide is revised as a result of suggestions from the public or additional staff 
review.
1.111-14
