Revision 3		November 1978


	Embankment design studies should include an evaluation of the perfor-
mance of the embankment on the basis of instrumentation monitored during
construction and during the initial reservoir filling. Information related
to the evaluation of embankment performance should be provided in the
FSAR.

	Any significant event such as an earthquake or flood that occurs
during construction or during the initial reservoir filling should be
documented in the FSAR together with all information related to the per-
formance of the embankment and observed behavior within its foundation
and abutments during the event.

	Photographs showing general views of damsite (before, during, and
after construction), foundation stripping and treatment (FSAR), construc-
tion equipment and activities (FSAR), instrumentation devices and instal-
lation work (FSAR), and special items should be provided.

	Embankment zone placement quantities, a comparison of embankment
zone design placement requirements with a summary of field control test
data results (FSAR), and a comparison of embankment shear strength design
assumptions with a summary of record control shear strength test results
(FSAR) should be tabulated.

	The following drawings should be provided:

	1. General plan with vicinity map,

	2. Large-scale embankment plan with boring and instrumentation
locations shown,

	3. Geologic profile embankment axis, control structure axis, and
spillway axis,

	4. Embankment cross sections with instrumentation shown,

	5. Embankment details,

	6. Embankment foundation excavation plan,

	7. Embankment and foundation design shear strength test data graphic
summaries with selected design values shown,

	8. Embankment slope stability cross sections with design assumptions,
critical failure planes, and factors of safety shown,

	9. Embankment slope stability reevaluation, if necessary (FSAR),

	10. Embankment seepage control design with assumptions, section,
and selected design shown,


2-39
