Revision 3		November 1978


during and after a postulated seismic occurrence. The following informa-
tion should be provided in the PSAR:

	1. The criteria for seismic qualification, such as the deciding
factors for choosing test and/or analysis, considerations in defining
the input motion at the equipment monitoring locations, and the process
to demonstrate adequacy of the seismic qualification program.

	2. The methods and procedures used to test Seismic Category I
mechanical equipment operation during and after the Safe Shutdown Earth-
quake (SSE) and to ensure structural and functional integrity of the equip-
ment after several occurrences of the Operating Basis Earthquake (OBE)
in combination with normal operating loads. Included are mechanical equip-
ment such as fans, pump drives, heat exchanger tube bundles, valve actuators,
battery and instrument racks, control consoles, cabinets, panels, and
cable trays. Broad-band seismic excitation, dynamic coupling, and multi-
directional loading effects should be considered in the development of
the seismic qualification program.

	3. The methods and procedures of analysis and for testing of the
supports for the above Seismic Category I mechanical equipment, and the
verification procedures used to account for the possible amplification
of design loads (amplitude and frequency content) under seismic
conditions.

	There should be provided in the FSAR the results of tests and
analyses to ensure the proper implementation of the criteria accepted in
the construction permit (CP) review and to demonstrate adequate seismic
qualification.

	3.9.2.3	Dynamic Response Analysis of Reactor Internals Under
Operational Flow Transients and Steady-State Conditions. A description
of the dynamic system analysis of structural components within the reactor
vessel caused by the operational flow transients and steady-state condi-
tions should be provided in the PSAR. The purpose of this analysis is
to demonstrate the acceptability of the reactor internals design for
normal operating conditions and to predict the input forcing functions
and the vibratory response of the reactor internals prior to conducting
the preoperational vibration test of a prototype reactor. Information
concerning the method of analysis, the specific locations for response
calculation, the considerations to define the mathematical model, and
the acceptance criteria should be provided in the PSAR.

	3.9.2.4 Preoperational Flow-Induced Vibration Testing of Reactor
Internals. Information should be provided in the PSAR describing the
extent to which the recommendations of preoperational flow-induced vibra-
tion testing of reactor internals during the startup functional test pro-
gram, as delineated in Regulatory Guide 1.20, "Comprehensive Vibration
Assessment Program for Reactor Internals During Preoperational and Initial
Startup Testing," will be implemented. The purpose of this test is to


3-38
