Revision 3			November 1978


	The analyses should also discuss the need for and method of changing
to more restrictive trip setpoints during abnormal operating conditions
such as operation with fewer than all reactor coolant loops operating.
Reference may be made to other sections of the SAR for supporting systems.

	7.3 Engineered-Safety-Feature Systems

	For standardized systems, it is preferred that the information listed
be supplied in a topical report and that the topical report be referenced
in the appropriate place in the SAR.

7.3.1 Description

	7.3.1.1 System Description. Provide a description of the instru-
mentation and controls associated with the engineered safety features
(ESF), including initiating circuits, logic, bypasses, interlocks,
sequencing, redundancy, diversity, and actuated devices. Any supporting
systems should be identified and described. Those parts of any system
not required for safety should be identified.

	7.3.1.2 Design Basis Information. Provide the design basis infor-
mation required by Section 3 of IEEE Std 279-1971. For the PSAR review,
provide preliminary electrical schematic diagrams, logic diagrams, piping
and instrumentation diagrams, and location layout drawings of all engineered-
safety-feature instrumentation, control systems, and supporting systems.

	7.3.1.3 Final System Drawings. In the FSAR, provide electrical
schematic diagrams for all ESF circuits and supporting systems, and final
logic diagrams, piping and instrumentation diagrams, and location layout
drawings. Describe the differences, if any, between the logic diagrams
and schematics submitted in the PSAR and those in the FSAR and the effects
on safety-related systems.

7.3.2 Analysis

	Provide analyses, including a failure mode and effects analysis, to
demonstrate how the requirements of the General Design Criteria and IEEE
Std 279-1971 are satisfied and the extent to which applicable regulatory
guides and other appropriate criteria and standards are satisfied. In
addition to postulated accidents and failures, these analyses should
include considerations of (1) loss of plant instrument air systems and
(2) loss of cooling water to vital equipment. The method for periodic
testing of engineered-safety-feature instrumentation and control equip-
ment and the effects on system integrity during testing should be
described.

	7.4 Systems Required for Safe Shutdown

	For standardized systems, it is preferred that the information listed
be supplied in a topical report and that the topical report be referenced
in the appropriate place in the SAR.


7-4
