Revision 3		November 1978


6.5.4 Ice Condenser as a Fission Product Cleanup System

	The fission product cleanup function of the ice condenser system
should be considered separately from its heat removal aspects; it should
be described in this section only if credit is taken for this function
in the accident analyses of Chapter 15.

	6.5.4.1 Design Bases. Provide the design bases for the fission
product removal function of the ice condenser system, including the
following, for example:

	1. The postulated accident conditions and the extent of simultaneous
occurrences that determine the design requirements for fission, and

	2. A list of the fission products (including the species of iodine)
that the system is designed to remove and the extent to which credit is
taken for the cleanup function in the analyses of the radiological con-
sequences of the accidents discussed in Chapter 15 of the SAR.

	6.5.4.2 System Design (for the Fission Product Removal). This section
should describe those aspects of the ice condenser design that significantly
affect the fission product removal function of the ice condenser system.
The information provided should include, for example:

	1. The steam and air flow rates through the ice condenser as a
function of time following the accident,

	2. The concentrations of all additives to the ice and the pH of
the ice melt and the containment sump solution following an accident,
and

	3. A description of the methods and equipment to be used to produce
the ice with the proper additive content.

	6.5.4.3 Design Evaluation. Provide an evaluation of the fission
product removal function of the ice condenser system. The system should
be evaluated for fully effective and minimum safeguards operation, includ-
ing the condition of a single failure of any active component. If the
calculation of the effectiveness is performed for a single set of post-
accident conditions, attention should be given to the effects of such
parameters as recirculation fan flow rate, temperature, pressure, and
sump pH (and the resulting change in iodine partition) in order to
ascertain that the evaluation has been performed for a conservative set
of these parameters.

	6.5.4.4 Tests and Inspections. Provide a description of provisions
made for testing all essential functions required for the iodine-removal
effectiveness of the ice condenser system and for surveillance of the
system. In particular, this section should describe the provisions made
for sampling the ice to verify the proper additive content.


6-55
