Revision 3  November 1978
of chloride, fluoride, and oxygen and permissible content of hydrogen
and soluble poisons.  Discuss methods to control water chemistry, including 
pH.

     2.  BWR reactor coolant chemistry (for BWRs only).  Describe the   
chemistry of the reactor coolant and the methods for maintaining coolant
chemistry.  Provide sufficient information about allowable range and maxi-
mum allowable chloride and fluoride contents, maximum allowable conductiv-
ity, pH range, location of conductivity meters, performance monitoring, 
and other details of the coolant chemistry program to indicate whether 
coolant chemistry will be maintained at a level comparable to the recom-
mendations in Regulatory Guide 1.56, "Maintenance of Water Purity in 
Boiling Water Reactors."

     3.  Compatibility of construction materials with reactor coolant.  
Provide a list of the materials of construction exposed to the reactor  
coolant and a description of material compatibility with the coolant,   
contaminants, and radiolytic products to which the materials may be     
exposed.  If nonmetallics are exposed to the reactor coolant, include a 
description of the compatibility of these materials with the coolant.

     4.  Compatibility of construction materials with external insula-
tion and reactor coolant.  Provide a list of the materials of construction 
of the RCPB and a description of their compatibility with the external 
insulation, especially in the event of a coolant leakage.  Provide suffi-
cient information about the selection, procurement, testing, storage, 
and installation of any nonmetallic thermal insulation for austenitic 
stainless steel to indicate whether the concentrations of chloride, fluoride,
sodium, and silicate in thermal insulation will be within the ranges recom-
mended in Regulatory Guide 1.36, "Nonmetallic Thermal Insulation for Aus-
tenitic Stainless Steel."  Provide information on the leachable contaminants 
in insulation on nonaustenitic piping.

     5.2.3.3  Fabrication and Processing of Ferritic Materials.  Provide
the following information relative to fabrication and processing of ferritic 
materials used for components of the RCPB:

     1.  Fracture toughness.  In regard to fracture toughness of the    
ferritic materials, including bolting materials for components (e.g.,   
vessels, piping, pumps, and valves) of the RCPB, indicate how compliance
with the test and acceptance requirements of Appendix G to 10 CFR Part  
50 and with Section NB-2300 and Appendix G of the ASME Code, Section III,
is achieved.  Submit the fracture toughness data in tabular form, including 
information regarding the calibration of instruments and equipment (FSAR).

     2.  Control of welding.  Provide the following information relative
to control of welding of ferritic materials used for components of the  
RCPB:

          a.  Sufficient information regarding the avoidance of cold     
cracking during welding of low-alloy steel components of the RCPB to
5-5
