Revision 3		November 1978


6.2.3 Secondary Containment Functional Design

	The secondary containment system includes the secondary containment
structure and the safety-related systems provided to control the ventila-
tion and cleanup of potentially contaminated volumes (exclusive of the
primary containment) following a design basis accident. This section
will discuss the secondary containment functional design. The ventilation
systems (i.e., systems used to depressurize and clear the secondary con-
tainment atmosphere) should be discussed in Section 6.5.3, "Fission Product
Control Systems," and Chapter 15, "Accident Analyses."

	6.2.3.1 Design Bases. This section should discuss the design bases
(i.e., the functional design requirements) of the secondary containment
system, including the following considerations:

	1. The conditions that establish the need for controlling the
leakage from the primary containment structure to the secondary contain-
ment structure;

	2. The functional capability of the secondary containment system
to depressurize and/or maintain a negative pressure throughout the
secondary containment structure and to resist the maximum potential for
exfiltration under all wind loading conditions characteristic of the site;

	3. The seismic design, leak tightness, and internal and external
design pressures of the secondary containment structure;

	4. The capability for periodic inspection and functional testing
of the secondary containment structure.

	6.2.3.2 System Design. Describe the design features of the secondary
containment structure and provide plan and elevation drawings of the plant
showing the boundary of the structure.

	Provide a tabulation of the design and performance data for the
secondary containment structure. Provide the types of information indi-
cated in Table 6-17.

	Discuss the performance objectives of the secondary containment struc-
ture. Identify the codes, standards, and guides applied in the design
of the secondary containment structure.

	Describe the valve isolation features used in support of the secondary
containment. Specify the plant protection system signals that isolate
and/or activate the secondary containment isolation systems or reference
the section in the SAR where this information can be found.

	Discuss the design provisions that prevent primary containment leakage
from bypassing the secondary containment filtration systems and escaping
directly to the environment. Include a tabulation of potential bypass
leakage paths, including the types of information indicated in Table 6-18.


6-28
