CHAPTER 2.  THE SITE

      This chapter should present the basic relevant information concerning 
those physical, biological, human, and social characteristics of the area 
potentially affected by the proposed project that might be affected by the 
construction and operation of a uranium milling project and its associated 
activities in the region.   To the extent possible, the information presented 
should reflect observations and measurements made over periods of time sufficient 
to allow defensible conclusions to be reached.

2.1  Site Location and Layout

      A map should be provided that shows the site and its location with respect
to State, county, and other political subdivisions.   On detailed maps, show the
location of the boundary of the proposed restricted area (10 CFR Part 20); the 
applicant's property; adjacent properties, including water bodies, wooded 
areas, and farms; nearby settlements; industrial plants, parks, and other 
public facilities; and transportation links (railroads, highways, waterways).   
Indicate total acreage owned or leased by the applicant and that part occupied 
by or which will be modified for the mine and mill.   Indicate other existing 
and proposed uses of applicant's property and the acreage devoted to these 
uses.

      Describe any plans for site modifications such as a visitors' center.   A 
contour map of the site should also be supplied with elevation contours of an 
interval suitable to show significant variations of the site environs and 
drainage gradients.   In addition, indicate if the site is in the vicinity of a 
flood plain.  This information should be supplied as separate maps, if required,
for clarity.

2.2  Uses of Adjacent Lands and Waters

      Indicate, within an 8-km (5-mi) radius, the nature and extent of present 
and projected land use (e.g., agriculture, livestock raising, dairies, 
pasturelands, residences, wildlife preserves, sanctuaries, hunting areas, 
industries, recreation, transportation) and any recent trends such as major or 
unexpected changes in population or industrial patterns.   Note whether any
other nuclear fuel cycle facilities are located or are proposed within an 
80-km (50-mi) radius of the site.

       Provide in tabular form for each of the 22-1/2-degree sectors centered on
one of the 16 compass points, i.e., north, north northeast, etc., the distances 
[to a distance of 8 km (5 mi)] from the center of the site to the following:

      1.   Nearest cattle (or other meat animals) grazing on natural forage, 
           with types and numbers of animals specified.

      2.   Nearest game animals consumed by sportsmen.

      3.   Nearest residence. 
2-1
