152


isolated in their areal distribution to pluglike bodies with somewhat
variable margins and diameters. Internally, domes tend to be
structurally more complex (in places almost "homogenized"), but not on
their tops and borders, where extensive dissolution has generally
occurred. Also, adjacent strata penetrated by domes tend to be faulted
and folded in a complex manner, making their physical continuity and
effects on water flow more difficult to characterize. This makes the
prediction of radionuclide transport less certain. Fluid inclusions in
domal salt tend to be smaller and lower in total volume than those in
bedded salt that has not been subjected to as much pressure and
compactive force. However, because of the very high thermal
conductivity of salt, heat from depth is focused upward through salt
domes. Thus, temperatures are generally higher in the upper parts of
buried domes, and water contents are much lower relative to bedded salts
and other rocks at similar depths. Up-warped and faulted sedimentary
strata on the margins and tops of salt domes are especially attractive
for oil and gas exploration, and their hydrology is more complicated and
uncertain. Domes are also attractive as a source of nearly pure rock
salt, as sites of deposits of elemental sulfur formed by reduction of
calcium sulfate on the dome margins, and as sites for underground
excavations for storing oil, gas, and other fluids.
  Domes are limited in number and easy to locate, making them more
likely targets for future human intrusion. Because they penetrate
various water-yielding sedimentary rocks to great depths, they are
subject to dissolution near their margins and may be surrounded by both
potable water at shallow depths and more mineralized groundwater at
greater depths. Their locations near the Gulf Coast are favorable in
that any minor amounts of radionuclides transported in highly saline
groundwater must be greatly diluted at shallow levels before becoming
potable or will be discharged directly into the sea for ultimate
dilution. Despite the dynamic piercement origin of salt domes, various
lines of evidence document their present structural stability.
Long-term future changes in sea level may alter details of groundwater
flow systems operating in enclosing coastal plain aquifers by increasing
or decreasing path lengths and water velocities, but the consequences of
such possible changes can be adequately bounded.

		7.4.3. Granitoids*

Granitoids and similar crystalline igneous and metamorphic rocks are the
most abundant rocks of the earth's subareal upper crust. True granites
constitute only a small percentage of the physically similar rocks
included here as granitoids. Granitoids underlie much of the United
States near the surface and at shallow depths, especially in
tectonically stable areas and in the cores of many mountain ranges.


*Details appear in a separate background paper on granitoids by D. E.
White (in press).
