166
      o  A geothermal temperature gradient of about 42~C/km, 
considerably above the continental average, resulting in an ambient 
repository temperature of 57~C or higher at the 1.1-km depth of the 
reference repository location (RRL).

       Because of these problems the Umtanum host rock considered for the 
BWIP project is physically much less favorable than some other 
repository rock types discussed in this report.   There remains 
uncertainty in the response of the Umtanum basalt to repository 
excavation, particularly with regard to the possibility of rock 
fractures from excavation communicating directly with adjacent permeable 
aquifers.

7.7.2.  Hydrology  

Hydrologically, the Columbia River basalts of the Pasco Basin are, in 
general, less permeable with depth.   The central zones of Grande Ronde 
lava flows have hydraulic conductivities of 10-10 to 10-12 m/s; 
brecciated flow tops, i.e., interflows, typically range from 10-5 to 
10-8 m/s, or about one to two orders of magnitude lower than in 
interflows and interbeds of the shallower basalts.   Hydrologic and 
hydrochemical evidence, some of which appears in Figures 7-2, 7-3, 7-4, 
and 7-5, supports the concept of significant vertical upflow in the 
general area favored by Rockwell for the repository.   Note that flow is 
most rapid from the reference repository level to the east and southeast 
(Figure 7-2), but salinities are highest near RRL (Figure 7-5).   This is 
most reasonably explained by upflow of deep saline water near RRL.  
Table 7-3 and Figure 7-4 show the "normal" compositional differences.  
Distances to discharge areas along the Columbia River probably range 
from 10 to 35 km (the range from RRL to drill hole DC-6 and to Richland 
with a mean distance of about 20 km) along the Columbia River, according 
to most estimates.   Somewhat greater estimates, 60 to 80 km, have been 
made by hydrologists.
       Flow rates from recharge to discharge can be approximated from data 
on ages of deep waters from well DC-15 (Figure 7-4).   These "apparent" 
ages, based on carbon-14, may be too old due to loss of early upstream 
carbonates precipitated as recharge waters reacted with rocks and pH 
increased; ages may also be too old due to cross-formational upflow of 
deeper water low or lacking in carbon-14.   The apparent ages may also be 
too young from downward mixing with younger waters.   In spite of these 
uncertainties, a relatively long age of 10,000 years or more for the 
Grande Ronde pore waters seems most probable, not only because of the 
apparent ages of DC-15 waters, but also from chemical evidence (Figure 
7-4).   Both the sulfate content and changes in deuterium-to-hydrogen 
ratio of Grande Ronde waters indicate their relative isolation, with 
less cross-formational flow than in the younger basalts.   If an average 
water travel time of 10,000 years is assumed from RRL to the mean of the 
most probable zone of discharge (a distance of about 20 km), the 
indicated pore velocity is on the order of 2 m/yr, probably ranging from 
less than 0.4 to 4 m/yr.
