90


	5.10.4. Evaluation of the Performance of Waste-Package Designs

The present waste-package design studies (Westinghouse Electric
Corporation 1981, 1982a,b) reflect engineering analysis of the
mechanical and structural integrity of the waste package when subjected
to stresses in fabrication, shipping, and emplacement and under the
thermal, hydraulic, and lithostatic stresses imposed by the heated
repository. The overpack materials are selected and specified on the
basis of their ability to resist corrosion for 1,000 years. Radiation
shielding is also considered.
  The present design studies apparently do not yet include analyses of
the ability of the waste package, or of the waste-package and associated
backfill, to meet some release rate requirement, such as the numerical
criterion of less than 10-5/yr after 1,000 years that has been
proposed by NRC. As noted in Chapters 8 and 9, the panel has
reservations about both the need and the sufficiency of the NRC
criterion when applied uniformly to all of the radionuclides identified
as important by EPA and NRC, and the panel has reservations about the
ability of the present waste-package designs to meet this proposed
criterion for some of these radionuclides. Comments on the ability of
backfill to help meet the NRC's proposed release rate criterion appear
in Section 5.11.4. However, based on the performance analyses in
Chapter 9 and the assumptions therein, these waste-package designs seem
adequate to meet the overall performance criterion of 10-4 Sv/yr
individual dose adopted for the purpose of this study.
  Regardless of whether or not the NRC's presently proposed release
rate criterion is adopted, it is important that the performance of the
waste package and backfill to aid in achieving some overall performance
criterion of the geologic waste-disposal system be carefully analyzed as
part of the process of designing the waste package.
  We do not yet find any substantive analyses of the failure modes of
the waste packages, including considerations of the local stresses and
"metalline" corrosion that seem possible when a hot waste package, in an
initially dry environment, is subjected to the influx of groundwater
during water intrusion and resaturation after the emplacement region is
sealed.

	5.10.5. Waste Packages for a Granite Repository in Sweden

A comprehensive study of waste packages for disposal in granite was done
in Sweden to fulfill the Swedish government's requirement for a
demonstration of how "absolutely safe" disposal of high-level waste can
be effected. The designs for spent fuel and reprocessing waste were
reviewed within Sweden and internationally (National Research Council
1980) and were found to meet the government's requirements. The
following description of the package designs is from a summary by
Ahlstrom (1979).
  The waste packages were designed for borehole emplacement, with
waste loading per package less than half that in the U.S. designs. It
was assumed that the wastes were stored at the surface for 40 years,
