Acknowledgments
  The author is grateful to W. C. Carr, T. M. Cronin, J. W. Harden, J. W.
Hawley, D. L. Hoover, G. M. Huestis, M. N. Machette, D. L. Marchand, L.
McCarten, D. R. Muhs, J. P. Owens, K. L. Pierce, G. M. Richmond, R. R. Shroba,
and W. C. Swadley for providing suggestions and samples from the many
different areas covered in this investigation. A. J. Gude kindly provided
samples from Lake Tecopa, and G. R. Scott and B. J. Szabo provided help in
locating and sampling alluvial units in the Golden fault zone. J. R. Dooley,
Jr., A. J. Bartel and C. R. McKinney helped with chemical separations on some
of the glacial deposit samples from the Colorado, Wyoming, and northern
Yellowstone National Park areas. C. A. Bush provided valuable help in
operating the alpha spectrometers and programming the data acquisition
system. K. R. Ludwig developed a computer program to obtain a York fit and
automatic plot of the data.

Purpose and Goals
  The purpose of this investigation was to develop a model to describe that
part of uranium migration whose end product was a predictable change of
uranium and thorium isotopic ratios with time. The model was applied to
deposits of known or inferred age. These deposits provide both the needed
time calibration for the model as well as a basis for evaluating its
reliability. If sufficient reliability can be demonstrated, an empirical
radiometric dating technique, extending from a few thousand to almost a
million years, would be available to aid in geologic investigation of
surficial deposits.
  For uranium-series dating, it would be useful to have a technique capable
of dating the time of deposition of surficial deposits, rather than having to
find fossil material suitable for dating by conventional closed-system
uranium-series methods. The uranium-trend technique should date inception of
migration of fluids through the deposit. Also, it would be useful to have a
technique to estimate rates of formation of geochemical replacement deposits
such as caliche, spring deposits, and dissolution residues.
  If sufficient reliability can be demonstrated, this dating technique can
be applied to some important geologic problems: (1) establishing fault
chronologies and age of last movement, (2) rates of seismotectonic processes,
(3) correlation of the marine record with that of deposits in the continental


4
