7.  EFFECTS OF UNES ON FAULTS

UNEs have been known to trigger release of natural tectonic strain, partic-
ularly for large tests (1 Mt).   Since the Buckboard area is reserved for 
future weapons tests as large as 700 kt, and since the southern end of that 
test area is about 23 km from the reference site for the surface facili-
ties, concerns naturally arise about the potential for inducing displace-
ment on faults in the site vicinity due to future testing in the Buckboard 
area.

This topic was addressed in a previous report by URS/Blume (1985).  Seismic 
fault rupture and aftershocks triggered by UNEs were the subject of some of 
the literature on UNEs at the NTS and in the central Nevada testing area 
(Aki et al., 1969; Bucknam, 1969; Dickey, 1968; Hamilton and Healy, 1969; 
McKeown and Dickey, 1969; Wallace et al., 1983).   A brief review of this 
literature indicates that, beyond 5 to 10 km from surface ground zero, no 
significant seismic strain releases or related effects are likely to be 
induced by even the largest UNEs (about 1 Mt).  Since the nearest active or 
proposed UNE testing area is more than 23 km from the site, induced fault-
ing or fracturing is not a credible threat to the proposed underground re-
pository or its surface facilities (URS/Blume, 1985).

This subject was also addressed at a workshop convened by Science Applica-
tions International Corporation (SAIC) for the purpose of discussing tec-
tonic stability and expected ground motion at Yucca Mountain (SAIC, 1985).
The workshop participants reviewed much of the same literature reviewed by 
URS/Blume (1985) and noted similar observations regarding the confinement 
of induced strain release to the near vicinity of ground zero.   Recordings 
of explosions at distances beyond a few kilometers from ground zero some-
times reveal waves induced by tectonic releases; however, the participants 
concluded that such effects were unlikely to be significant in recordings 
for a 700 kt explosion at a distance of 23 km.
73-74
