driven by a 150 HP electric motor with belt drive. The pump produces a
dry vacuum of 12 in. of mercury at 2,400 cfm, at 1,400 rpm. Immediately 
ahead of the blower and located in the same skid is a secondary filter 
unit. This serves the dual purpose of polishing the already filtered air 
and acts as a safety filter in case a cartridge in the primary unit 
ruptures. This final system protects the blowers and assures that 
discharge air is respirable. Actually, the primary filter unit alone is 
probably efficient enough to assure that the discharged air is of 
respirable quality.

The secondary filter employs the same type of cartridges as in the primary 
unit, but a purging system is not used. Since little dust should be 
collected, removal is effected manually, after opening a cover plate.

A water injection unit, which is located just ahead of the pump intake, 
can be used if necessary to decrease the internal leakage of the pump and 
thus increase the working vacuum. The vacuum pump unit discharges into a 
plenum chamber and then to atmosphere via an air silencer unit.

3.5 Liner, Ref. Drawing D36514

The liner is an 8 ft. long pipe section (reference Figure 7). As a
structure, it must withstand the maximum thrust and torque reaction loads 
without buckling or compression failure. An analysis (Attachment 4) 
showed that either a .38 in. thick wall in 52 ksi material or .5 in. wall 
in 35 ksi material would be suitable.

The ends of each pipe section are bevelled to permit a full penetration 
weld. Because a shallow angle is desirable at the jacking collar to avoid 
excessive wedge loads while providing sufficient opening at the joint for 
root penetration, the bevels at each end are at different angles. 
Tentatively, a 45~ angle is shown in front and 15~ at the rear, or thrust 
end, of the liner pipe. The selection of the exact angles should be 
determined in conjunction with the automatic welding machine manufacturer.

The manufacturing tolerances on the straightness of pipe, ovality, and 
squareness of the ends must be held to tolerances tighter than generally 
held on commercial tubing. Alternately, weld preparation on the pipe ends 
could include sizing or counterboring. Each liner section joint must be 
carefully aligned to avoid hang up of the liner in the bore or hang up of 
system units on misalignment ridges inside the liner.

3.6 Derrick Power Unit, Ref. Drawing D35925

The power unit (Pack B shown in Figure 7) provides the hydraulic supply 
for the derrick and crawler functions. A double-ended electric motor 
drives two variable displacement pumps. The largest pump has 72 gpm 
capacity and, at maximum stroke, will supply low-pressure fluid for 
rapidly traversing the derrick and for driving the crawler. The pump has 
a horsepower limit control which, when sensing increased pressure, will
35
