  The drill hole penetrated 29.2 m of the cooling unit and 0.8 m of bedded
tuffaceous sediments at the base. The member thins to the south as indicated
by the southern drill holes (fig. 6; table 3). The source of the Yucca
Mountain Member is north of the drill hole; consequently, a thinning of the
unit is expected southward.

			Bedded Tuff

  Bedded and nonwelded ash-flow tuffs occur locally between the Yucca
Mountain Member and underlying Pah Canyon. The bedded sequence is 44 m thick
at USW G-2, where it consists essentially of ash flow intercalated with some
ash fall. North of the drill-hole site, this unit contains abundant ash fall
and attains a thickness of approximately 90 m. The unit eventually pinches
out south of USW G-2, as evidenced by the southern drill holes (table 3).

  The ash flows were probably emplaced locally at a low temperature, as
evidenced by lack of welding. The tuffs are mostly vitric and partly argil-
lized and contain large pumice and abundant volcanic lithics. The tuffs are
characterized by a very low phenocryst content of quartz, sanidine, and
plagioclase.

			Pah Canyon Member

  The Pah Canyon Member is a simple ash-flow cooling unit with an upper and
lower nonwelded to partially welded zone, and a middle moderately to densely
welded zone. The sheet displays an upper and lower vitric zone that envelopes
a middle zone that is partly zeolitized and argillized. The zeolitized zone
could possibly represent a perched zone, since zeolites have not been pre-
viously identified in the Pah Canyon Member. The unit is fairly crystal poor,
containing approximately 5 percent phenocrysts of biotite, sanidine, and
plagioclase.

  The drill hole penetrated 70.9 m of the Pah Canyon Member and 8.8 m of
basal tuffaceous sediments intercalated with some ash-fall tuff. The Pah
Canyon, like all of the Paintbrush members, thins toward the southern drill
holes.

			Topopah Spring Member

 The Topopah Spring Member is a multiple ash-flow compound cooling unit
(compositionally zoned) as indicated by Lipman and others (1966). The com-
positional zonation grades from crystal-poor rhyolite at the base to crystal-
rich quartz latite toward the top; petrographically the unit contains sani-
dine, plagioclase, biotite and clinopyroxene phenocrysts (Lipman and others,
1966). The sheet has been described in detail by Lipman and others (1966) and
the reader is referred to that report for a more detailed description.


17
