boreholes or through badly caved or washed out intervals. This is
particularly true in air-or gas-filled holes where the greatest borehole
effects usually occur. Comparison with the caliper log can identify anomalies
which are due to borehole effects beyond the limits of compensation.

  Changes in density are due primarily to changes in porosity and water
content. Alteration that changes the grain density also has a significant
secondary effect on formation density. Anomalies are detected and interpreted
by comparisons with neutron, velocity, and resistivity logs.

			Porosity

  The porosity log plot has two traces. One is porosity computed from the
density log assuming the grain density of sandstone (2.65 g/cc) and total
saturation, which is a valid assumption below the static water level. The
other is porosity from a borehole compensated sidewall neutron log, which is
also based on the assumption of total saturation and calibrated for a
sandstone rock matrix. The borehole compensated neutron tool is calibrated to
determine porosity in fluid-filled holes, and normally is not run above the
fluid level in the air-filled section of the hole. Logs made with borehole
compensated neutron tools in air-filled holes are recorded and reported as two
single detector neutron logs.

  Values reported for porosities in fluid-filled holes above the static
water level are lower than true porosity unless borehole fluid has invaded the
rock and has artificially created the condition of total saturation at least
to the depth of investigation of the logging tool. Borehole compensated
density and neutron tools have different depths of investigation, on the order
of 15 cm and 25 cm or more respectively. Porosities from compensated density
and neutron tools are expected to agree for saturated silicic rocks, and
disagreement between them indicates such conditions as less than total
saturation, greater saturation by invasion at the depth of investigation for
the density log than for the neutron log, non-silicic mineralogy, alteration,
and the presence of neutron moderators such as boron or chlorine in the rock,
the formation water, or the borehole fluid.

			Velocity

  The velocity of sound waves through the formation is determined by
measuring the time interval for waves to travel a known distance along the
borehole wall parallel to the borehole axis. The distance is divided by the
elapsed time to obtain the velocity of the formation. The plot (pl. 1) has
three traces showing seismic compressional velocity, sonic compressional
velocity (Vp), and sonic shear velocity (Vs).

  Sonic compressional velocities are continuously measured with a sonic
logging tool which has a relatively high frequency transmitter (typically 20
khz) at the bottom of the tool, and two detectors, one located further from
the source than the other typically 3.9 and 5.9 ft or(1.2 m and 1.8 m). Newer
borehole compensated sonic velocity tools use a second transmitter above the
two receivers so that travel times of signals generated by both transmitters
can be averaged to obtain improved measurement accuracy.


53
