     For the most part, stratigraphic nomenclature conforms with that applied 
by Byers and others (1976), and Carr and others (in press), Christiansen and 
Lipman (1965), Lipman and McKay (1965), Orkild (1965).   Stratigraphic data 
obtained from other core holes are presented in detail by Maldonado and 
Koether (1983), and Scott and Castellanos (1984), Spengler and others (1979, 
1981), Spengler and Rosenbaum (1980).   Although perhaps unconventional, 
lithologic descriptions presented in this report separate intervals of bedded 
tuff from underlying and overlying ash-flow tuff members.   Bedded-tuff 
intervals recognized in the subsurface are commonly very thin in comparison to 
the ash-flow tuffs and vary considerably in thickness between boreholes; and 
therefore, their physical and chemical properties may differ markedly from 
those of non- to partially welded ash-flow tuff.

        Major stratigraphic units, along with their respective thicknesses, are 
outlined in descending order in table 2.  Detailed lithologic variations 
occurring within each major stratigraphic interval are described in the 
Appendix and supersede descriptions previously published in Bentley (1984).  
Separate lithologic units primarily describe changes in welding, primary 
crystallization, alteration, phenocryst content, and lithic content, all of 
which may influence physical characteristics of the unit.   The dominant types 
of welding, crystallization, and alteration are graphically displayed in 
columns 1 and 2 of plate 1.  Except where otherwise stated, all thicknesses 
and depths are measured along the axis of the core without regard to hole 
deviation.

Alluvium and Colluvium

       Alluvial and colluvial deposits of Quaternary age, occurring at the 
surface are typically composed of a poorly sorted mixture of unconsolidated to 
poorly consolidated, silt to boulder-size fragments of nonwelded to densely 
welded tuff.

        The contact between alluvium and bedrock was not determined accurately 
because of inadequate sample collection prior to the installation of surface 
casing at 40 ft (12 m).   The contact has been estimated at a depth of about 
30 ft (9 m) below land surface; however, it is possible that the contact may 
be as much as 10 ft (3 m) higher.   

Paintbrush Tuff

       On the basis of similar petrographic features, ash-flow tuffs that occur 
between the bottom of the alluvium and a depth of 1,406.8 ft (428.8 m), are 
included in the Paintbrush Tuff (Byers and others, 1976).   In descending 
order, this formation includes the Tiva Canyon, Yucca Mountain, Pah Canyon, 
and Topopah Spring Members.   All four members are present in the USW G-4 core 
hole, and each is underlain by 10-40 ft (3-12 m) of bedded and ash-fall tuff 
deposits.

        Within the exploratory block (fig. 2), the upper and lowermost members 
are dominantly composed of welded tuff, and the two middle members (Yucca 
Mountain and Pah Canyon) are dominantly nonwelded.
10
