UE25a-3 site, because of numerous faults. Brecciated zones as shown on table 2 may possibly
indicate fault zones.
  The argillites of the argillite subunit are dark gray to black and contain quartz
(30-40 percent), illite, and an illite-montmorillonite mixed layer, with lesser amounts of
feldspars, chlorite, calcite, and siderite as determined from X-ray analysis. The fractures
contain kaolinite, and its polymorphs; dickite, nacrite, and minor chlorite (identified by
X-ray analysis). Also present in lesser amounts are pyrite, calcite, quartz, montmorillonite-
illite mixed layer, and hematite. Kaolinite and its polymorphs occur throughout the argillite
subunit. The bottom of a thin recrystallized limestone bed containing fossil fragments at
422.5 m (1,386 ft) was selected as the base of the argillite subunit. Overlying the frag-
mental limestone is 6.4 m (21 ft) of thermally altered argillite.
  The next subunit penetrated is the lower subunit that occurs between 422.5 m (1,386 ft)
and 720.6 m (2,364 ft), and is composed of argillite with minor intercalated quartzite,
limestone, and conglomerate beds. Some of the argillites could be very fine grained silt-
stones. The argillites have been thermally altered as the result of contact metamorphism.
The altered argillites have been thermally bleached to a lighter color and are light gray to
dark greenish gray and contain quartz (50-70 percent), illite, montmorillonite-illite mixed
layer, chlorite, feldspar, and calcite with lesser amounts of siderite and magnetite. The
fractures contain calcite, chlorite, magnetite, some hematite, and trace amounts of garnet.
  The basal part of the lower subunit consists of calcareous argillites that have been
thermally altered and occur between 676.9 m (2,221 ft) and 720.6 m (2,364 ft). Thin lime-
stone beds that have been marbleized and silicified occur in the upper part of the section.
The section represents a transitional zone from argillaceous clastic sediments to carbonates.
The calcareous altered argillites are medium dark gray, dusky green to grayish olive, and
contain quartz (10-60 percent), corrensite (montmorillonite: chlorite; 1:1), montmorillonite,
calcite, feldspars, and calcite. The fractures contain calcite, quartz, and trace amounts of
magnetite.
  Underlying the basal part of the lower subunit is a marble that represents the recrys-
tallized carbonates of unit I(?). The marble is white to medium light gray, and consists of
recrystallized calcite and brucite (Mg(OH2)) with trace amounts of dolomite and serpentine(?)
(X-ray analysis). The fractures contain calcite, ferruginous clay, and some magnetite,
chlorite, and quartz. The presence and amount of brucite suggest the possibility that the
recrystallized carbonate was probably a dolomite or a dolomitic limestone.

				Metamorphism

  The argillaceous clastic sediments of the Eleana Formation were exposed to low-grade
regional metamorphism changing them to argillite. Superimposed on this low-grade regional
metamorphism is thermal metamorphism (contact metamorphism) resulting mainly in bleaching
of the argillites. The rocks penetrated by the drill hole have been broken down to strati-
graphic subunits (argillite and lower); however, the alteration boundaries do not coincide
with the stratigraphic subunits boundaries. For the purpose of discussion, the following
intervals have been formed based on thermal alteration or the lack of: argillite 0-416.1-m


10
