22   BRODING, ZIMMERMAN, SOMERS, WILHELM AND STRIPLING
procedure to calculate the response curves for the logging tool. These steps are:
 1. Section the response volume outside the tool case to permit practical use 
of the calculated results.
 2. Select a mathematical model approximating the behavior of the logging
tool.
 3. Calculate the variation of the field vectors in space.
 4. Calculate the response values ~R/~~ and ~L/~~m for the selected sections 
of the volume.
      Because of the obvious geometry of the borehole, long circular cylindrical
shells coaxial with the borehole were used to determine the region of influence 
of the tool. The effect of layering in the rock formation can be derived from the 
use of circular cylindrical disks.
      Once the model representing the magnet and its coil is selected, the Hertz
polarization vector can be calculated and from it the vector and scalar potentials 
giving rise to the field vectors can be obtained. A simple model, chosen to reduce 
the numerical computation involved in evaluating equations (10), has provided 
solutions that check well with the experimental data.
     The induction tool consists of a solenoid wrapped around a round bar.  Cur-
rent flowing in the solenoid induces a magnetic polarization in the bar.  If ~~ 
is the magnetic field in the bar, the magnetic polarization of the bar is described by
The vector ~~ is determined from the Biot-Savart law, (applied to a statically 
energized solenoid).  Along the axis of the solenoid of N turns per unit length,
of length l1, and diameter d, with a current I0, assume
For a coil of ratio d/l1~~1, from (11) and (12)
Here, ~~~ is a unit vector along the Z-axis (the axis of the solenoid and bar).
      The vector ~~ is assumed reasonably to persist from one end of the bar to 
the other.  It is this magnetic polarization that produces the field outside the
case of the tool.
 Since the eddy current in the bar reduces the penetration of the field into the
bar, the value of ~m in equation (13) can be approximated by assuming it to be 
equal to the ratio of the inductance values of the coil with and without the 
core,3  
3 R. Glasgow, Principles of Radio Engineering, McGraw-Hill (1936), p 51.
