393
MORPHOMETRIC STUDIES OF FRESH CINDER CONES

     Cinder cone dimensions have been studied systematically only in the last
8 years.  In this paper the terminology of Porter (1972) is used, with Wco = 
cone basal diameter; Wcr = crater diameter; Hco = cone height; s = cone slope 
angle (Fig. 2).  The depth of a crater can be readily modified during or after 
an eruption (at Paricutin the depth changed from 140 m to 30 m to 100 m 
over a 26-day period in late 1946; Wilcox, 1947) and often is less than the 
contour interval of maps used for measurement; therefore, the depth of the 
crater is not used as a descriptive parameter.  In order to relate cinder cone 
morphology to eruption conditions, I use only relatively fresh cones in the 
statistical comparisons.  Fresh cones are generally distinguished by a lack of 
vegetation and gullying on their flanks, have well-defined circular outlines, 
and frequently an abrupt change in slope occurs where the cone meets the 
surrounding ground surface.
Fig. 2. Schematic diagram illustrating measurements of cinder cones.
Cone diameter distribution

     The distribution of basal diameters (Wco) for 910 cinder cones in the fol-
lowing areas: San Francisco volcanic field, Arizona; Mauna Kea, Hawaii;
Nunivak Island, Alaska; Kilimanjaro, Tanzania; Etna, Italy; and Paricutin,
Mexico is shown in Fig. 3, compiled from data supplied by Settle (1979, 
and personal communication).  Although both degraded and fresh cones are 
included in this sample, the results are considered reasonably representative 
of the diameter spectrum of terrestrial cinder cones.  Cinder cone diameters 
range from 0.25 km to about 2.5 km with a mean of about 0.9 km and a me-
dian of 0.8 km.  By contrast, the few spatter cones whose diameters are re-
ported in the literature are generally less than 0.1 km across at their bases.  
Maars are somewhat larger than cinder cones, with Wcr averaging 0.7-~0.8 km 
(Wood, in preparation), and composite (strato-) volcanoes are much larger, 
with basal diameters averaging 8 km (Wood, 1978).
     With a basal diameter of 0.13 km, the Reunion cone Cratere Ducrot is
smaller than all of the 910 cones in Fig. 3.  The small diameter is consistent 
with the interpretation that the Reunion cones are more like spatter cones 
than cinder cones.   The other three cones discussed in the previous section
