5.0 APPLICATION OF THE CSIR AND NGI ROCK-MASS-
    CLASSIFICATION SYSTEMS TO THE TUFF UNITS

  This section describes the information available to rate the tuff
units and discusses how a value was chosen for each of the parameters in
the CSIR and NGI rock-mass-classification systems. Each subsection in
this section discusses a particular classification parameter and is
followed by a "Ratings" table (see List of Tables). The tables summarize
the information available and list the numerical rating chosen for the
particular parameter for each tuff unit. In this section, the parameters
from both systems are ordered in three basic categories: strength-related
parameters, joint-related parameters*, and groundwater-related parameters.
Strength-related parameters are presented first and groundwater-related
parameters last.

  The CSIR and NGI systems each have one strength-related parameter.
The CSIR system groups values for strength of intact rock to associate
each group with a numerical rating. The uniaxial compressive strength
for each of the tuff units and the CSIR rating chosen for each unit are
described in Subsection 5.1.1. To rate competent rock, the NGI system
uses a ratio of the uniaxial compressive strength to the in situ stress.
The ratios are grouped and associated with a numerical rating called the
Stress Reduction Factor (SRF). The strength-to-stress ratio and the
associated SRF value of each of the tuff units are discussed in Sub-
section 5.1.2.

  Both the CSIR and NGI systems have numerous parameters for joint-
related properties. These parameters are discussed in Subsection 5.2.
In this subsection, the RQD values for the tuff units and the ratings
chosen are discussed first (Subsection 5.2.1). Both classification
systems use RQD. The CSIR system groups values for RQD and associates
each group with a numerical rating. The NGI system uses the actual value


* In this study, there is no differentiation between fractures and
joints. "Joint" is the term most commonly used in both the NGI and
CSIR systems to describe breaks in the rock. In this report, the two
terms are used interchangeably.


19
