than north-facing slopes, have about twice the fracture frequencies of north-
facing slopes. These observations suggest that the most reliable fracture
densities are those measured along short traverses that afford maximum expo-
sure and uniform lithology.
    Fractures in volcanic rocks are produced by cooling, tectonism, and
unloading or dilatation owing to removal of overburden. Fractures produced by
dilatational stress at the Site have not been distinguished from those pro-
duced by tectonic stress; the attitudes of dilatational fractures are likely
to be heavily influenced by the active tectonic stress field. Cooling frac-
tures are not considered to be as important as tectonic fractures at Yucca
Mountain, because fractures have a strong preferred orientation consistent in
both welded and nonwelded tuff throughout the mountain (Figure 37). Neverthe-
less, fractures are more abundant in welded tuff than in nonwelded tuff.
Apparently, nonwelded tuff responds to a given stress by developing fewer
fractures, perhaps by taking up stress intergranularly. Further work is in
progress to test the validity of these preliminary conclusions.
    The fractures in the northern, western, and northwestern blocks, where no
traverses were made, also have a dominant north-northwestern strike. Most of
the eastern block has the same dominant fracture set. However, some areas,
particularly those associated with north-northeast striking faults, have
dominantly north-northeast striking fractures.  The longest and smoothest
fractures appear to define two sets: a dominant north-northwest striking set
and a strong but secondary north-northeast striking set.

Subsurface Structural Geology

    Drill-hole data have been helpful in assessing the subsurface struc-
ture. Primary layering in the northern drill holes dips 3~E to 8~E. In drill
hole USW-GU3/G3 farther south, the dip changes from 7~E near the surface to
about 10~S at 1500 m depth. No sharp discordance in attitudes of foliation or
bedding has been recognized at depth.
    The distribution of fractures relative to rock type in core is similar to
that at the surface; more fractures occur in brittle densely welded tuff than
nonwelded or bedded tuff. The fracture data from drill hole USW-GU3/G3 are
used here as an example (Scott and Castellanos, 1984). Data from drill holes
in the northern part of the Site were presented by Spengler and others
(1979b).
56
