  Conspicuous differences in parts of the Tram are recognized in drill hole
USW-G2 (Maldonado and Koether, 1983). The upper subunit described above is
absent in USW-G2. The uppermost interval in USW-G2, 46 m thick, contains 50
to 95 percent lithic fragments of tuff and lava of both rhyolitic and
intermediate composition. The abundance of lithic fragments nearly masks the
pyroclastic texture. The lithic-rich interval rests gradationally above ash-
flow tuff with 10 to 30 percent lithic fragments. The lateral stratigraphic
relations between the Tram in drill hole USW-G2 and the lower two subunits of
the Tram in USW-G1 are not known. Detailed study of the Tram in USW-GU3/G3
suggests that it comprises 28 separate magmatic pulses (Scott and Castellanos,
1984).
  The Tram is separated from the overlying Bullfrog Member by 6 to 22 m of
bedded and reworked tuff.
  The ash-flow tuff comprising most of the Bullfrog is 68 m (USW-G2) to
187 m (USW-GU3/G3) thick. In northern drill holes it seems to be a simple
cooling unit in which nonwelded to partially welded zones enclose a moderately
welded core, but in the south (USW-GU3/G3) it is compound, split by a 1 m-
thick bed of sedimentary tuff. Most of the upper part of the member is
devitrified or shows evidence of vapor phase crystallization. In drill holes
USW-G1 and USW-G2, the upper part of the unit is partially altered to zeolites
and (or) clay; in UE25b1-H, only the lower 21 m have been slightly altered to
clay.
  As much as 10 m of ash-fall tuff and tuffaceous sediments, which are
commonly zeolitized, separate the Bullfrog from the overlying Prow Pass Mem-
ber.
  The ash-flow tuff of the Prow Pass Member, 80 m (USW-H6) to 193 m (USW-
G2) thick, is similar in appearance and petrography to the Bullfrog, but the
two members are distinguished because (1) mudstone fragments in the Bullfrog
are fewer and smaller than in the Prow Pass and occur in equal amounts with
rhyolitic lava fragments; and (2) the Bullfrog contains more biotite and
hornblende. The Prow Pass is also distinguished from other units of the
Crater Flat Tuff by its orthopyroxene and by extreme resorption of quartz
phenocrysts. Phenocryst content is approximately 10 percent, mostly potassium
feldspar and plagioclase. Generally, the Prow Pass is devitrified and only
slightly welded, and locally it is zeolitized. The top and bottom parts are
commonly altered to clay and zeolites. A zone of slight to intense zeoliti-


26
