Health Effects Incidence Rates

The health effects incidence rates are used in AMRAW-B to convert
population dose rates by organ to health effects by organ, which are then 
totaled. Health effects are generally synonomous with hypothetical
cancer deaths.

Table 6-8 tabulates the health effects incidence rates used in
AMRAW-B. The lower and upper range values are taken from the DOE Generic
Environmental Impact Statement [DOE, 1979b]. The lower values are
"considered appropriate for comparison with the estimated risks of other
energy technologies..." while the upper values may be more appropriate
for radiation protection considerations. Leukemia values are taken from
the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic
Radiation (UNSCEAR) report to the U.N. General Assembly [United Nations,
1977] but are incorporated under bone because the dose commitment factors
for bone and bone marrow are almost identical for most nuclides.
Incidence rates for the gastrointestinal tract are calculated as 20% of 
all nonleukemic cancers, according to the BEIR report of the National
Academy of Sciences [NAS, 1980]. Total body incidence rates account for
other cancers, such as liver and breast, not specifically identified by
organ. An approximate overall incidence rate which has been used for
guidance for many years is 200 health effects per 106 man-rem. The lower
range used in this study represents about one-half the guidance value and
the upper range represents about four times the guidance value.

6.4.3 Results

The total activity, in curies, released in the airborne volcanism
component is listed in Table 6-9 for each of the two release times and
for each of the two types of repository inventories. This activity is
dispersed in accordance with the deposition contours for a unit release
in Figure 6-4. Also listed in Table 6-9 are corresponding volume and
mass concentrations in the airborne particles. As described earlier, it
is assumed that the inventory fraction in the airborne component is in
77
