SUMMARY 
The U.S. Department of Energy, Nevada Operations Office, is currently
directing a program to determine whether a nuclear waste storage repository
can be established at the Nevada Test Site.  A part of this effort requires
the development of appropriate seismic design criteria.  These criteria,
which are intended to be generic in nature and applicable to any site, will
provide standards and guides for an engineering design that will mitigate
the effects of earthquake shaking and underground nuclear explosions.

This report summarizes the considerations for developing seismic design
criteria for repositories as of September 1979.  Its purpose is to determine 
what research is necessary to develop acceptable seismic design criteria.

Repository Design Concept 

A conceptual design was assumed for a prototype waste repository that would
be adaptable to a variety of sites with different geologic conditions.  The
facility consists of a large number of excavated storage rooms and intercon-
necting tunnels located two or more thousand feet below the ground surface.  
Receiving and handling facilities for canisters that contain waste or spent 
fuel are located on the surface.  Vertical shafts connect the surface- 
receiving facilities to the underground facility, where the waste canisters 
are delivered to a transporter vehicle that moves the canisters to their 
final storage location.  There, the canisters are emplaced into holes in the 
floor or walls of the underground storage rooms.  The holes are then back-
filled and plugged for radiation shielding.

Typical Support Systems for Underground Excavations 

It was assumed that two types of rock support systems may be used in a
repository: (1) rock bolt system and (2) steel set system.  A rock bolt
system is preferred on the basis of cost and design considerations.  A steel 
set system is useful in poorer rocks that require heavy support.  From the 
point of view of engineering design and cost, it is preferable to excavate 
a repository in ground that requires minimal reinforcement and support.  
Current underground support system philosophy is to use support systems 
that make maximum use of the inherent strength of the rock mass itself.
- vii -
