For the inversion experiment, we selected 50 of the best-recorded and
geographically most widely distributed earthquakes. A Yucca Flat nuclear
event was also included with fixed hypocenter, but free origin time, because
it was determined that fixing the nuclear explosion origin time resulted in
strong negative bias in the station terms. This result using the present
crustal model is likely due to relatively shallower Paleozoic rocks beneath
Yucca Flat, especially on the west side of Yucca fault, compared to the region
as a whole. Traveltimes from nuclear events also show fair correlation with
the shotpoint velocity (Taylor, 1983) indicating that near-surface velocity
structure produces some of the bias in nuclear event traveltimes. Accord-
ingly, the inversion was performed with minimal constraint from nuclear shot
data. The station terms resulting from the final inversion are shown in
figure 5. The mean delay at each station is the result of traveltime differ-
ences along diverse ray paths from a wide range of azimuths (the program
corrects for station elevation). It is likely, therefore, that the delays
reflect mostly near surface velocity changes. For this reason we employ the
delays as station corrections to help improve the earthquake locations in a
relocation of the entire data catalog (1978-81). Using these station terms to
correct arrival times has resulted in a tightening of seismicity trends and
clusters and a reduction of the RMS residuals and standard errors.

Velocity variations were strongly damped during the inversion, forcing
their effect to be absorbed in the mean station residuals. This procedure was
required because, when velocity variations were not strongly damped, geologi-
cally implausible velocities resulted and the average RMS errors in the
hypocenter solutions were not significantly improved compared to the highly
damped velocity model.  It is surmised that lateral velocity variations
introduce first-order perturbations of traveltimes that are not accommodated
by a one-dimensional model; therefore, freeing the velocities in the inversion
does not lead to an improvement in the model or the locations. The solution
to this problem will involve a three-dimensional velocity inversion, which is
currently under study.

Employing the above P-wave crustal velocity model and station correction
terms, we derived the corresponding S-wave velocity model from P- and S-wave
station times using Wadati diagrams (Kisslinger and Engdahl, 1973) for six
well recorded earthquakes. As shown in figure 6, a Vp/Vs ratio of 1.71 was
obtained having a low-standard error. The linearity of the data and the low
data scatter are good support for our assumption that Poisson's ratio does not
vary significantly within the crust in the SGB.

DESCRIPTION OF EARTHQUAKE LOCATIONS, FOCAL MECHANISMS AND THEIR
RELATION TO MAPPED SURFACE FAULTING

Seismicity maps showing the relation between tectonic features, focal
mechanisms and epicenters are shown in figures 7-12, and plate 1. Figure 7
also shows the regions of the detailed figures 8-12. The focal mechanism data
are shown in figures 16-18. The revised crustal model and relocated earth-
quake hypocenters provided the impetus to reevaluate the focal mechanisms
presented in a previous report (Rogers and others, 1981), leading to
modification of some mechanisms and rejection of others. Both the earthquake
locations and focal mechanisms presented in this report should take precedence
9
