are taken to be two-thirds the horizontals for DE-2 and DE-1, modeled as 
near-regional events, and equal to the horizontal for the PCE, modeled as a 
near-field event. Subsurface amplitudes at repository depth are provision-
ally taken to be half those at the surface.

UNE Ground Motion 

A UNE occurrence model was established from historic NTS testing prior to 
the Threshold Test Ban Treaty and the foregoing accelerated test schedule. 
Testing was assumed to occur in the Buckboard Mesa area located north of 
the site, an area as yet unused for UNE detonations. Assumed yield limits 
were those established on the basis of off-site damage potential. While 
current testing under the Threshold Test Ban Treaty produces negligible 
ground motion hazard at the site, significant hazard is calculated for the 
hypothetical occurrence model, based on an expansion of testing in terms of 
geography and yield. The principal hazard stems from postulated testing in 
the Buckboard Mesa area, which has a yield limit of 700 kt. Yucca Mountain 
recordings of Pahute Mesa UNE events were analyzed to determine site-
specific adjustments to attenuation functions obtained by Vortman (1984a).

Peak horizontal accelerations for DUNE-2 and DUNE-1 were determined to be 
0.125 g and 0.15 g, respectively, and accelerations for the vertical compo-
nent were 0.15 g and 0.18 g. It is the nature of UNE-generated ground 
motion that peak vertical accelerations are greater than peak horizontal 
accelerations at the distances being considered here. UNE response spec-
tral shapes were obtained from statistical analysis of Yucca Mountain 
recordings of Pahute Mesa UNE events scaled to a yield of 700 kt. The 700-
kt spectral shapes were developed in lieu of UNE uniform-hazard spectra, 
for which requisite attenuation functions are not available. Both horizon-
tal and vertical components of subsurface ground motions recorded at repos-
itory depth at Yucca Mountain are significantly less than surface motions 
for frequencies from 1 Hz to the data band limit of 25 Hz. In the case of 
horizontal components, the subsurface ground motions are also less for fre-
quencies less than 1 Hz. Pending the development of a satisfactory model 
for the surface and downhole data, it is recommended that subsurface mo-
tions be taken as half those at the surface for interim design purposes.
- xi -
