intermediate-yield data set for Buckboard Mesa where the yield limit is
about 700 kt, and a Yucca Flat data set where the upper limit would be
about 250 kt. The latter limit would also apply to events in the Frenchman
Flat region. For security reasons, the data have been scaled to the one of
the above three yields associated with the data set.

  When the work has been completed there will be prediction equations
for acceleration, velocity, and displacement. Because acceleration is the
primary parameter, we have chosen to prepare equations for it first. Only
work done on acceleration is reported herein, although for many of the
events the 3-component vector sums for velocity and displacement are com-
pleted also. When the decision was reached to discontinue work at the
Eleana site, it was decided to concentrate first on the Pahute Mesa and
Buckboard Mesa data sets and to work on the Yucca Flat data set at a lower
priority.

  Tables 2 and 3 list the events in each of the three data sets. It
should be noted that the Buckboard Mesa data set is not made up of events
fired in the Buckboard Mesa area, but rather of those fired on Pahute Mesa
judged to be most appropriate for estimating ground motion in the event
future shots are to be detonated in the Buckboard Mesa area.

  The tables show also the source of the data, the number of stations
for which three components of motion are available from each source, and
the number of stations for which processing of acceleration data is com-
plete. The last two columns summarize the number of stations for which
acceleration processing has been completed and the number remaining to be
done.

  The question marks in the LASL data column of Table III merely
indicate that the number of stations providing usable data has not been
determined. The uncompleted Sandia data are from relatively recent events
or from earlier events where the data require special treatment which
takes additional time. There is a backlog of USGS data from their analog
tapes for which digitizing was not completed during the fiscal year.


15
