Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America, Vol. 73, No. 2, pp. 593-613, April 1983


EVIDENCE OF TECTONIC RELEASE FROM UNDERGROUND NUCLEAR
EXPLOSIONS IN LONG-PERIOD P WAVES

BY TERRY C. WALLACE, DONALD V. HELMBERGER, AND GLADYS R. ENGEN

		ABSTRACT

  In this paper, we study the long-period body waves at regional and upper
mantle distances from large underground nuclear explosions at Pahute Mesa,
Nevada Test Site. A comparison of the seismic records from neighboring explo-
sions shows that the more recent events have much simpler waveforms than
those of the earlier events. In fact, many of the early events produced waveforms
which are very similar to those produced by shallow, moderate-size, strike-slip
earthquakes; the phase sP is particularly obvious. The waveforms of these
explosions can be modeled by assuming that the explosion is accompanied by
tectonic release represented by a double couple. A clear example of this
phenomenon is provided by a comparison of GREELEY (1966) and KASSERI
(1975). These events are of similar yields and were detonated within 2 km of
each other. The GREELEY records can be matched by simply adding synthetic
waveforms appropriate for a shallow strike-slip earthquake to the KASSERI
observations. The tectonic release for GREELEY has a moment of 5 ~ 1024 dyne-
cm and is striking approximately 340~. The identification of the sP phase at
upper mantle distances indicates that the source depth is 4 km or less. The
tectonic release time function has a short duration (less than 1 sec). A compar-
ison of these results with well-studied strike-slip earthquakes on the west coast
and eastern Nevada indicate that, if tectonic release is triggered fault motion,
then the tectonic release is relatively high stress drop, on the order of several
hundred bars. It is possible to reduce these stress drops by a factor of 2 if the
tectonic release is a driven fault; i.e., rupturing with the P velocity. The region in
which the stress is released for a megaton event has a radius of about 4 km.
Pahute Mesa events which are detonated within this radius of a previous
explosion have a substantially reduced tectonic release.

			INTRODUCTION

  It is well documented that certain underground nuclear explosions require sources


~which have substantial nonisotropic components (Press and Archambeau, 1962;
~oks~~z et. al., 1964; Toks~~z and Kehrer, 1971; among others). The surface-wave
~bservations provide the evidence which is most commonly cited for this source
asymmetry. For example, for the explosion GREELEY, the observed ratio of the
Love to Rayleigh wave excitation is much larger than would be predicted for a pure
explosion source and scattering in a simple layered earth. In addition, the Rayleigh
waves display a radiation pattern (Toks~~z and Kehrer, 1972). In the case of the
Shagan river region of the Eastern Kazakh Test site, explosions which are only
kilometers apart produce Rayleigh waves which are 180~ out of phase (North and
Fitch, 1981; Goforth, 1982). As for body waves, SH waves at teleseismic distances
are a fairly common observation (Nuttli, 1969). Similarly, in the near field, there are
tangential accelerograms which are much too large to be explained by simple
scattering (Aki et al., 1969).
  A widely accepted explanation for the phenomenon of SH-type seismic wave
generation by explosions is the release of tectonic strain. Considering the abundance
of examples for the influence of tectonic release on SH and surface waves, it is
somewhat surprising that there is very little documentation of its influence on P


593
