204 SOUTHWESTERN NEVADA AND EASTERN CALIFORNIA.


  From one locality the following Pennsylvanian fossils, determined
by Dr. George H. Girty, were collected:

	Fusulina sp.		Small indeterminable gasteropod.
	Crinoidal fragments.	Indeterminable fragments.
	Fenestella sp.

  Fragmentary fossils were collected from two other localities, and
concerning these Doctor Girty states that while they are undoubtedly
Carboniferous, they indicate nothing further.
  Older alluvium.-~On either side of Emigrant Wash and at the
north end of the Panamint Range are a number of areas of the older
alluvium. The deposit east of Emigrant Wash forms intensely dis-
sected hills which are continuations of the ridges of Tucki Mountain.
The two large areas across the valley to the northwest are eastward-
sloping plains cut by erosion into low hills, and each is separated from
Death Valley by a low ridge of Paleozoic limestone. A few small
outliers occur higher up in the mountains at a maximum altitude of
5,000 feet.
  These deposits are composed of beds of angular bowlders and well-
stratified sand. These are locally so well cemented by calcium carbon-
ate that caves 25 feet high exist in them. Around Emigrant Spring,
in the southern extension of the area west of Tucki Mountain and in
the area at the north end of the Panamint Range, white and pink clay
similar to that of the present playa deposits is interbedded with the
bowlder beds. At the north end of the range the series has an exposed
thickness of 2,500 feet.
  Recent desert gravels unconformably overlie the older alluvium,
which in turn lies upon the eroded surface of the quartz-monzonite
and Paleozoic rocks. The upper portion of the series and the basalt
are contemporaneous, and in consequence the older alluvium is prob-
ably of Pliocene and early Pleistocene age. In Pliocene-Pleistocene
time, when Death Valley was occupied by an extensive playa, the
Panamint Range was comparatively low and insignificant. The older
alluvium areas are the remnants of alluvial slopes which once fringed
its borders. These alluvial slopes near Goldbelt Spring reached an
elevation of 5,000 feet, while to the north of Tin Mountain no rem-
nants remain above 4,000 feet. Considerable portions of the Tin and
Tucki mountain deposits are formed of playa clays, showing that
during periods of exceptional rainfall the playa of Death Valley ex-
tended well up on the Panamint Range.
  Recent alluvium.-~The valley above the head of Cottonwood Creek
is covered with coarse soil and loam. A more resistant portion of the
quartz monzonite has narrowed and partially dammed the valley, and
behind this barrier the material washed from the surrounding hills
has accumulated. Four miles north of Goldbelt Spring is a basin
whose bottom in depressed 275 feet below the inclosing rim of hills.
