Areal Variations in Quaternary Tectonism

  Pronounced contrasts in the rates and magnitudes of
Quaternary uplift are reflected in the landscapes north and
south of the Garlock fault. The northern subarea is the
southern extent of one of the most tectonically active re-
gions in North America. Class 1 and class 2 mountain fronts
are typical of the northern subarea (Table 2) where the
Panamint Range rises to more than 3200 m and Death Valley
has been depressed to below sea level. In addition to the
tilting of the fault blocks, the mean altitude of the north-
ern subarea may be higher than the transitional subarea
(significant at ~ = 0.20). Hooke (1972) uses geomorphic
criteria to estimate a maximum possible uplift rate for the
west front of the Black Mountains at 7 m per 1,000 years,
and Quaternary studies by Smith (1975) indicate that the
central part of Panamint Valley is the most active tectoni-
cally. Fault scarps and faults in the piedmont alluvium
also are common in the northern subarea (Hunt and Mabey,
1966; Smith and others, 1968).
  Although the Garlock fault marks the southern extent
of the prominent north-south structural blocks (see Figure
2) that have been associated with the extensional tectonics
of the Basin and Range Province, the magnitudes of Quatern-
ary uplift do not change abruptly at the fault. The north-
south mountain fronts north of the Garlock fault have mor-
phologies that reveal decreasing magnitudes of Quaternary
uplift toward the south (see Table 2). Within the northern
subarea the class 1 fronts change to class 2 fronts, which
then change to the class 3 fronts of the transitional sub-
area. The north-south decrease in uplift rates is most
apparent for the Argus Range block, which consists almost
entirely of granitic rocks that are susceptible to pedi-
mentation. The fact that the general locations of the
mountain fronts are still discernible in the transition
subarea, but are extremely poorly defined in the southern
subarea is suggestive that the southern subarea has been
even more inactive tectonically during the late Cenozoic


135
