822  WILLIAM R. DICKINSON
  Further circumstantial evidence for the volcanic venting of granitic magma
chambers comes from interpretations of the large collapse calderas that form
around the feeder systems for many rhyolitic ash-flow or ignimbrite sheets
[Smith, 1960]. The calderas at the surface may be linked directly to cauldron-
subsidence structures beneath, hence some associated ring-dike complexes may
fill roughly concentric arrays of related fault fissures, and the rhyolitic ignim-
brite eruptions may signal partial evacuation of subjacent granitic magma cham-
bers having the dimensions of stocks and small batholiths. Hamilton [1969a, b]
notes that the Andean ignimbrites are typically more silicic than most major
batholiths, as would be expected if the upper levels of a differentiating magma
body were lost by eruption through vents in the roof. He infers that an elongate
granitic batholith belt of Cenozoic age probably lies unexposed at modest depths
beneath the curvilinear volcanic field of rhyolitic and andesitic extrusives along
the crest of the Andes. A Cretaceous analog may be present in Japan, where
granitic intrusives and rhyolitic extrusives of roughly the same ages are widely
exposed in the same broad region of western Honshu [Miyashiro, 1967, pp. 422-
423; Ichikawa et al., 1968].

ORIGINS OF ANDESITIC ROCKS

  Theories for the origin of andesitic magmas fall into three main categories:

1. Primary mantle melts or derivative melts formed by differentiation of
primary basaltic mantle melts
2. Primary crustal melts or derivative melts formed by crustal contamina-
tion of primary basaltic mantle melts
3. Melts, or their derivatives, formed from either the crustal or the mantle
parts of lithosphere descending along inclined seismic zones

  Either the first two or the last two could conceivably operate in conjunc-
tion, as rising magmas react with rocks at shallower levels and introduce heat
into shallower regions.

Derivation From Mantle Parents or Melts

  Presently permissible variants of the first type of theory are unacceptably
~iverse. Possible sequences of melting and crystallization within the mantle at
~ifferent pressure levels are complex, and varied alternate geochemical frac-
~ionation patterns of crystal residua or accumulates and liquid residua or dif-
~erentiates are conceivable [O'Hara, 1965]. The geochemical properties of a
~antle-derived lava that reaches the surface reflect conditions of temperature
~nd pressure at the highest level of equilibration between melt and some refrac-
~ory or accumulative crystalline residuum that remains at depth. Even if the
~rupted lava is primitive in the sense that it has not undergone contamination
~r differentiation at crustal levels, its composition does not necessarily resemble
~losely that of the liquid that formed at the site of initial fusion deep in the
~antle. To a first approximation, the changes that the magma undergoes during
ts rise through the mantle are masked from our direct view, as it were, by the
