WESTERN STATES URANIUM DEPOSITS


monly fill pore spaces in the reduced sandstones and conglomerates; frag-
ments of wood, lignite, or bone material that acted as centers of reduction
were replaced by rich concentrations of uranium minerals-~whole pseudo-
morphed logs of uraninite and brilliantly colored uranium-vanadium oxides
were rich prizes encountered in many mines. The principal ore minerals
after pitchblende and coffinite are canary yellow carnotite
[K(UO2)2(VO4)2~3H2O] and tyuyamunite [Ca(UO2)(VO4)2~5-8H2O], bright
yellow-orange-red gummite (a mineraloid mixture of hydrous oxides of
U, Th, and Pb), and a variety of yellow, orange, blue, and black vanadium
oxides like montroseite [VO(OH)]. Minor amounts of pyrite, marcasite, ga-
lena, sphalerite, chalcopyrite, bornite, chalcocite, covellite, and many other
sulfide minerals also are found. Minor amounts of native selenium are char-
acteristically associated with some uranium and uranium-vanadium ores,
and the molybdenum oxide ilsemannite (Mo3O8~nH2O?) is also common (Kerr,
1958).
  The ore-bearing formations are nearly horizontal, but they are dis-
turbed in places by moderately strong monoclinal and anticlinal folds and
by high-angle faults. Major structural basins, such as the San Juan Basin,
the Uinta Basin, and the Piceance Basin, delimit relatively barren areas
between which there are clusters of ore deposits. A regional northwesterly
structural grain apparently reflects deep-seated igneous and tectonic move-
ments, yet there seems to be no direct relationship between the distribution
of uranium and regional structure, except insofar as tectonic history has
controlled sedimentation, geomorphology, and igneous activity, and insofar
as the ore deposits lie within the uplifted tectonically positive regions be-
tween structural basins (Kelley, 1955; Kerr, 1958). Salt domes and various
types of igneous intrusives are widely distributed in the Colorado Plateau,
and lava flows and pyroclastics are also present. Except for some Precam-
brian batholiths, the intrusives are all Miocene or younger. No general
spatial distribution between igneous activity and ore deposits can be dem-
onstrated, except where uranium mineralization is associated with dia-
tremes and volcanic collapse structures (Shoemaker, 1956).
  The origin and source locales of the ore components have been the
subjects of much discussion and disagreement. Four principal ideas have
been advanced. It has been argued that (1) the ores are syngenetic and
were deposited with the sediments or as an early diagenetic cement, (2)
the uranium and vanadium were leached from overlying or interlayered
tuffs and volcanic rocks, (3) groundwaters leached the metals from the
enclosing sands or from nearby granitic sources, forming deposits where
the proper Eh-pH conditions prevailed or where groundwater circulation
was channeled, and (4) the ores are products of ascending hydrothermal
fluids derived from underlying magmas (McKelvey, Everhart, and Garrels,
1955). The syngenetic hypothesis was one of the first proposed (Coffin, 1921;
Fischer, 1950), and was widely accepted until the 1950s (Wright, 1955;
Fischer, 1956); it was based in large part upon the obvious association


917
