possibility of generating pseudoreflectors from more or less random signals--
and empirical evidence from the displays indicates that artifacts have indeed 
been produced.   In all five of the COCORP profiles, including those of figure 
25, the processing has introduced a marked fabric, between about 2 and 5 
seconds, that is inclined about 30~ in the direction along the one-sided 
geophone array toward the vibrators--to the right in A, to the left in B.  
There is a further correlation, a likely indication of further bias, with 
variation in fold amount, as can be seen by comparing each profile with the 
fold diagram beneath it.   The inclined fabric is least conspicuous where the 
amount of fold is steady or irregular; the inclined fabric is most conspicuous 
as a pervasive feature where it is inclined in the sense opposite to that of 
decreasing fold; and it is most conspicuous as a more or less linear zone 
where it is inclined in the same sense as is decreasing fold.  The COCORP 
group has based its fault interpretations on apparent reflectors of the latter 
type.  (Tapes of the stacked seismic records available for purchase from 
COCORP contain both the f-k filtration and increased stacking velocity, so 
reprocessing without those steps would require starting from the field tapes.)
  The most conspicuous of the apparent reflectors at issue originates in 
the center of the profile of figure 25-A at a depth of about 2.3 seconds and 
inclines downward to the right to about 5 seconds.   This was interpreted by de 
Voogd et al. (1986) to be a major fault.   It may nevertheless be an 
artifact.   The apparent reflector was not obvious on displays predating f-k 
filtration and increase in stacking velocities, according to Serpa and de 
Voogd; it is parallel to the artifact grain; and it is coincident with the 
longest smooth decrease in fold (from about 50 to 20 fold, over a horizontal 
distance of about 15 km) in any of the Death Valley COCORP lines.   De Voogd et 
al. inferred the apparent reflector at the right end of figure 24-A, reaching 
the right edge of the profile at 4 seconds, to be another major fault; again,
30
