526	HAMILTON AND MYERS


gado, a few kilometers north of the fortieth parallel. Beyond Delgado, the fault
apparently arcs to the west and becomes the submarine Gorda scarp. This curve
is shown by submarine rift topography, the beheading of a submarine canyon,
and a smoothly arcuate canyon that opens at the base of the scarp [Shepard and
Emery, 1941, pp. 38-42; Shepard, 1957]. Epicenters of distinctive Franciscan-
continental-crust earthquakes, generated within 10 km of the surface, extend
along the Gorda scarp [Cameron, 1961]. This north-facing scarp is about 1.5
km high and has an average slope of about 30~ [Krause et al., 1964, Figure 3].
We infer from the onshore geology that the Gorda scarp bounds a continental
block formed of Franciscan terrane; consistent with this inference, dredge hauls
from the crest of the scarp at a depth of about 2 km and about 110 km offshore
included serpentine [Krause et al., 1964, pp. 248-249]. The San Andreas fault
thus swings westward from a coastal trend to one directly offshore and displaces
the continental margin directly seaward; the Gorda scarp is developed along the
margin of the higher standing continental plate.
  The north-facing Gorda scarp is directly continuous with the south-facing
Mendocino escarpment, which begins at the foot of the continental slope (Figure
5) and continues westward for something like 2500 km. The crossover occurs
where the depth of the continental slope south of the Gorda scarp becomes
greater than the depth of the crest of the Mendocino escarpment. The Mendocino
structure apparently marks a left-lateral strike-slip fault, probably inactive,
along which a distinctive pattern of magnetic anomalies and the westward-
sloping ocean floor have been displaced about 1150 km [Vacquier et al., 1961].
The near-shore part of the Mendocino escarpment is marked by a submarine
ridge, which stands 2 to 2.5 km above the ocean floor to the south but only
about 1 km above the floor to the north, and is formed of basalt [Krause et al.,
1964, Figure 4 and pp. 247-248].
  The San Andreas fault thus turns directly seaward at the point at which
the south-facing Mendocino escarpment projects into the continent. San Andreas
and Mendocino displacements are in opposite senses; hence they cannot be part
of a single motion system. The San Andreas is highly active; the Mendocino,
apparently inactive. These anomalies, and the other features of the San Andreas-
Gorda structure, are easily accounted for if the continental plate west of the
San Andreas fault is riding over the crust of the Pacific Ocean basin. The
narrow continental slice west of the San Andreas has been drifting northwest-
ward, past interior and northern California, throughout Cenozoic time, and its
point may have been deflected westward as it encountered the south-facing
Mendocino escarpment on the ocean floor. About 100 km of displacement along
the San Andreas has postdated this encounter, the balance having occurred
before the coastal strip reached the escarpment. The inception of the Eel River
basin, which trends northwestward just north of Cape Mendocino, in the late
Miocene [Ogle, 1953] may have been due to deformation resulting from the
initial impinging of the San Andreas sliver against the Mendocina scarp. De-
formation of the Eel River basin has continued to the present.
  Significance. The San Andreas fault system thus appears to end both to the
