532	LOCKE, BILLINGSLEY, MAYO-~TECTONIC PATTERN


  Correlation of rocks with structures.-~As we have described the prod-
ucts of crystallization, they make a series of rocks paralleling the series of
structures. Fresher material such as clay slate lies in the simpler
structures. The crystallization progresses through increasing complica-
tions to the stage of granite and lava. The places of most complete
granitization are those parts of the tectonic pattern in which the knots
are drawn the tightest.
  This places the granite at the loci of strongest distortion. The Sierra
core is the part of the mountain system in which such loci are clotted
into a great curving line. It resembles a turbulent stream passing be-
tween curved banks, a gigantic drag zone of whorls of various shapes
and sizes.
  The individual whorls can be studied in a series connecting surface to
depth, for they have been variously eroded. Near Pine Ridge, 30 miles
south of Yosemite, the granite contains a funnel 12 miles in diameter.
Around the periphery of the funnel remain a few thin streamers of schist
while inside small black clots persist which are remnants of schist, diorite,
and gabbro. The funnel has an irregular center of aplite and carries
aplitic masses strewn around its northern edge. It is obviously a whorl
in which granitization is far advanced.
  Near the southern end of the Sierra, in the area of the Jawbone Canyon
hook, occurs a similar granite funnel. Here, the proportion of aplite
is greater, suggesting a still more advanced stage and a deeper level of
exposure. A peculiarity not seen at Pine Ridge is that this whorl, after
complete crystallization and a mile or two of erosion, was revived. As a
result, the granite is almost everywhere crushed, and areas are found
in which aplite has been milled to loosely coherent sand and erosion has
developed badland shapes. Along the most prominent curved shears,
loose, crushed granite grades through strongly cemented granitic sludge
to frothy masses with glassy borders which obviously were melted and
squeezed outward and upward on thrusts. Similarly thin schist zones
grade into dark-gray sludges, sometimes carrying phenocrysts, and these
in turn grade into dikes of andesite or dacite porphyry. The pattern of
the re-fused masses conforms strikingly with that of the older whorl in
the granite. Two of the larger nodes make Cross and Chuckwalla moun-
tains. Since the new melt was generated, erosion, by removing perhaps
1000 or 2000 feet of rocks, has exposed actual volcanic roots.
  One hundred and fifty miles farther north, within 18 miles of Mono
Lake, the East Front is indented by an elliptical basin from the floor of
which rises a cluster of volcanic hills. These hills are curved, so that
the topography resembles a whorl, like many of those mapped in granite,
and like that followed by the re-fused granite of Jawbone Canyon. A
