26	J. H. STEWART


the spreading in the Great Basin. This concept apparently requires that part of the Farallon
plate ceased its descent under North America and remained under the Great Basin. If, on
the other hand, the plate did continue to descend, a hole would be left in the plate where
no new lithosphere was being created inland of the transform system (Fig. 1-7). If this were
true, material from the asthenosphere would presumably ascend into the hole as the plate
descended, creating a convection system much like that along a ridge system. Both the "hot
plate" and "hole filling" concepts are difficult to apply to Mexico, where basin-range structure
lies east of areas where the ridge system still exists.

Mantle Plumes

  Deep-mantle convection in the form of narrow rising plumes has been thought to play
a major role in the late Cenozoic history of the Western United States (Matthews and Anderson,
1973; Wilson, 1973; Smith and Sbar, 1974; Suppe and others, 1975). According to Morgan
(1971, 1972a, 1972b), such mantle plumes provide the driving mechanism for continental drift
and cause plates to rift and to be driven apart from one another. The Snake River Plain-Yellow-
stone area in southern Idaho and northwestern Montana has been suggested (Suppe and others,
1975) as the trace of such a mantle plume. According to this theory, the plume lay under
the western part of the Snake River Plain about 15 m.y. ago and has traced a path relatively
eastward as the North American plate moved over it. Its present position is under the Yellowstone
region of northwest Wyoming. Matthews and Anderson (1973), Smith and Sbar (1974), and
Suppe and others (1975) have suggested that this plume may have caused the breakup of
a large segment of the Western United States. Others (Eaton and others, 1975) related the
volcanism in the Snake River Plain to a major crustal fracture that propagated northeastward,
guided by structures in Precambrian rocks.
  As of now, mantle plumes similar to those proposed for oceanic areas have not been proved
to underlie western North America, nor is the effect of such plumes, if they exist, certain.
Seemingly, several widely scattered plumes would be necessary to produce the extensional
faulting observed in such a large segment of the Cordillera of western North America. As
yet only one area (Yellowstone) can credibly be considered to be underlain by a plume,
and even that is a matter of controversy.

			CONCLUSIONS

  Of the many characteristics of the Basin and Range province that should be considered
in evaluating the origin of basin-range structure, the most important appear to be (1) low
seismic velocity of the upper mantle, indicative of partial melting; (2) thin crust; (3) high
heat flow; (4) regional uplift and extension; (5) previous history of deformation in Mesozoic
and earliest Cenozoic time, and of widespread siliceous volcanism in middle Cenozoic time;
and (6) position inland from a transform plate boundary.
  Considered together, these characteristics generally fit well with the concept of back-arc
spreading. In this system, heat generated by friction along a descending slab provides the
energy for upwelling of mantle material and the resultant thinning of the crust, regional uplift,
and near-surface spreading. High heat generation can be assumed because of long history
of subduction along the western margin of North America that led to the widespread emplacement
of plutonic rocks in the Mesozoic Era and to the eruption of voluminous volcanic rocks,
particularly silicic types, in early and middle Cenozoic time  The back-arc setting is further
