52			COAL RESOURCES OF THE UNITED STATES


		UNITED STATES ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS, 1952

	A study of data available on United States coal resources to determine
general areas suitable for the location of synthetic liquid-fuel plants was
completed in 1952 by Ford, Bacon, and Davis under the auspices of the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (1952, p. 17, 18). The estimated recoverable
coal reserves as of January 1, 1949, delineated during the course of that
study, totaled about 170 billion tons, of which a maximum of 126 billion
tons was deemed suitable for immediate large-scale use in the
manufacture of synthetic liquid fuels.
	The major objective of the Corps of Engineers survey was to outline
large blocks of coal that would be immediately available for large-scale
mining to supply hypothetical synthetic liquid-fuel plants. The
maximum depth of coal considered in the Corps of Engineers estimate
was 1,500 feet, and the minimum thickness of coal considered was 24
inches for bituminous coal and 48 inches for lignite. With these
parameters, the Corps of Engineers figure of 170 billion tons for
recoverable reserves is very conservative, but it is appropriate in terms of
the study objectives. If, for the moment, this figure is doubled to 340
billion tons to represent coal in the ground, it is found to be smaller than,
but roughly comparable to, the figure of 424 billion tons for the reserve
base of the United States, which is discussed on page 00 and presented in
detail in table 5.

			COKING-COAL RESOURCES

	Coke is usually manufactured from blends of two or more coals of
different rank and composition and may incorporate small amounts of
other ingredients, such as anthracite fines, petroleum coke, or low-
temperature char. The term "coking coal" therefore refers typically to a
variety of coals and only rarely to a single coal with unique properties.
Although a single coal of medium-volatile bituminous rank that is low in
ash, sulfur, and phosphorus will produce a satisfactory metallurgical
coke, resources of such coal are small, and the properties desired in a coke
are more readily obtained and standardized by the blending procedure.
The blending procedure also permits use of coals that individually do not
yield a satisfactory coke. Most coking-coal blends contain 15-30 percent
low-volatile bituminous coal, which is strongly coking, and 85-70
percent high-volatile bituminous coal, which is weakly coking. In 1972
low-volatile bituminous coal constituted 17.6 percent of the total coal
made into coke, medium-volatile constituted 16.5 percent, and high-
volatile constituted 65.9 percent (U.S. Bureau of Mines Minerals
Yearbook, 1972, p. 451). In addition to rank, the nature of the original
plant constituents of coal is a factor in determining coking properties, as
are the deleterious constituents-~ash, sulfur, and phosphorus. With the
many variables that must be taken into account, modern coking-coal
blends have become complex mixtures of carbonaceous material.

