-56-


   A third set of features that supports an exotic channel discharge source
is as follows: The alluvial fan channels enter the bedrock channel perpendicu-
larly, and one of them is the best developed of Ash Hill Fan channels and was
probably the last of the fan channels that carried runoff from the Bristol Mountain~
prior to the fan's beheading. Together, these features suggest subordination
of the fan discharge to the flow in the channel.

   It might be argued that before entering the channel, a large hypothetical
discharge first flowed down the Ash Hill Fan somewhere farther to the west. This
hypothesis is rejected because there is no sign of the large fan channel that
would necessarily have been involved. The longitudinal fan profile that radiates
west toward Ash Hill Divide is upwardly convex. Any amount of water passing over
the Ash Hill Fan surface great enough to incise a deep, wide channel in bedrock 
farther downstream should have left a large incised channel in the steeper  
alluvium of the Ash Hill Fan. It was pointed out earlier that one fan channel 
emptying into the hook-shaped bend appears to be the last fan channel to carry
runoff from the apex of the fan. Obliteration of another fan channel draining
to the Ash Hill Divide and subsequent incision of the channel emptying into
the hook-shaped curve would have involved the excavation and transport of con-
siderable debris, much of which should have lodged in the bedrock channel. Such
deposits are not present. Also, the confluence at the hook-shaped curve would 
necessarily have been modified so as to make the fan channel into the dominant
branch. The reverse is the case.

   The lack of channel incision between Ash Hill and the Channel Entrance
is consistent with other large watercourses where a reach of steep or pre- 
cipitous gradient is approached by way of a volcanic tableland. The entrance 
to Fossil Falls on the Owens River near Little Lake, California, is an example.
Although the magnitude and duration of channel activity in the latter instance
were probably both much greater, the effect is the same as that observed at Ash
Hill--signs of channelization tend to disappear as one moves upstream over the
volcanic tableland from the incised reach.

   It is for these several reasons that the large discharge estimated at   
Cross Section C-C' of the straight reach is interpreted as having come over
the watershed divide at Ash Hill rather than from the nearby 18.4 km2 catchment.

   Although the evidence so far has been only circumstantial, the most
likely source for such a discharge would be a large overflowing lake filling
the Broadwell Basin and the large basin system connected to it, of which Death
Valley is a part.

Shore Process Evidence Near Ash Hill 

   Direct evidence for such an overflowing lake has been found 3 km northwest
of Ash Hill Siding on the smaller of two volcanic vents in the Ash Hill Basalt.
The evidence is in the form of weathered rounded pebbles that are scattered along
a horizontal contour at the overflow elevation. Rounding of pebbles at this 
site by any process other than wave action appears impossible. The site is
uniquely suited to the development, preservation, and identification of shore
process evidence of the hypothesized lake.
