    For the stratigraphic units cases modeled with the microscopic approach, a 
fracture aperture value of 25 micrometers was chosen as the mean aperture.  
The average, equivalent hydraulic apertures in Table 1 are in the range of 
4-27 micrometers.   However, these values take into account the tortuosity of 
the fractures, both microscopic (surface topology) and macroscopic.   Barton 
et al. (1983) noted that in this range of apertures, the physical aperture 
dimension is on the order of 2-7 times the equivalent, hydraulic aperture.  
Because the effects of tortuosity of the pores are included in the calculation 
of the relative conductivity curve for the composite pore-size distribution, 
the tortuosity effect inherent in the equivalent, hydraulic aperture was 
removed.   Thus, an average value of 25 micrometers was used for the mean 
physical aperture as an approximation.   A variance of 0.3 was arbitrarily 
chosen, because it seemed to approximate the variance of the fracture relative 
permeability curve assumed in the previous macroscopic approach.   No 
information is currently available to determine the variance of the 
distribution of fracture apertures in the various stratigraphic units at Yucca 
Mountain.
       The information on the aperture and pore-size distributions was combined 
with estimates of fracture porosities to yield a rock mass, "pore"-size 
distribution that includes both the matrix and fracture structural 
characteristics.   The individual distributions were linearly weighted with 
their respective matrix and fracture porosities to create the cumulative, 
normalized volume distribution as a function of pore diameter (or radii).   For 
example, for a fracture porosity of 10%, the pores with apertures in the range 
of 1-100 micrometers compose 10% of the total rock mass volume.   The term 
"pore" refers here to either a matrix interstitial opening or a fracture 
opening.   As explained below, tortuosity distributions for the resulting 
pore-size distributions were assumed, with the tortuosity of a pore decreasing 
with increasing pore aperture or radius.
       With a composite pore-size distribution available for the rock mass, 
saturation values as a function of pressure head and one-dimensional relative 
hydraulic conductivity values as a function of pressure head were calculated.  
The adjustment to calculate water saturation as a function of pressure head
-36-
