RESULTS OF CALCULATIONS


   The six steady-state problems listed in Table 2 have been solved 
using TOSPAC. The results concerning a particular variable (e.g., the
pressure-head profile) will be discussed for cases where unit CHn is
vitric and the percolation rate is varied. These results will then be
compared to those where unit CHn is zeolitized to illustrate the effect
of changing the composition of one unit.

Pressure-Head Solutions 

      The solutions to Eq. 7 for the six different cases are shown in
Figures 8 and 9. Figure 8 shows the unit CHnv pressure-head profiles for
three different percolation rates and Figure 9 shows the CHnz 
pressure-head profiles. The first matter to be considered is the 
accuracy of these solutions. This was checked by calculating the 
percolation rate at each node point using the pressure-head solution, the
physical properties, and Eq. 7. Very slight errors in the pressure-head
solution can cause major errors in the calculated percolation rate,
especially if the water movement is primarily in the fractures. Thus,
the calculated percolation rate is a very sensitive measure of the
accuracy of the pressure-head solution. The calculated percolation rate 
(Figures 10 and 11) is plotted as relative percolation rate, which is the 
percolation rate at a point divided by the imposed percolation rate.
Figure 10 indicates that the solutions are accurate in terms of this
sensitive measure. The relative percolation rates for the cases where 
unit CHn is zeolitized (Figure 11) also show that good solutions were 
obtained.
   The steady-state pressure-head solution is a function of the
percolation rate, the conductivity and the pressure head boundary
conditions. In general, the pressure head decreases to large negative
values as the percolation rate is decreased. If the matrix conductivity
of a unit is small when compared to the percolation rate (e.g., the case
where a percolation rate of 4.0 mm/yr passes through unit TSw2-3, which
has a saturated matrix conductivity of about 0.6 mm/yr), then the


-18- 
