A2  TECHNIQUES IN UNSATURATED-ZONE HYDROLOGY
used different soil parametric equations. They demonstrated the useful-
ness of dimensionless curves in solving problems of the type under con-
sideration.
  The above treatments stressed the cases in which soil properties were
the determining factor of evaporation. Cases of evaporation in which the
atmospheric conditions play the decisive role can be treated by means of
several purely meteorological equations (for example, Slatyer and
McIlroy, 1961).
  Philip (1957a, b) showed how the effects of the soil factors on bare-soil
evaporation interacted with the effects of the atmospheric parameters
on bare-soil evaporation. Owing to his utilization of numerical methods,
Philip's approach to soil influences was more general but mathematically
less convenient than Gardner's approach.
  All the studies quoted above concerned themselves with homogeneous
soils and mainly with cases involving liquid transfer. Gardner indicated
how to include the vapor-transfer effects, but only for selected circum-
stances. Philip's approach to vapor effects is more general, but again
mathematically less convenient.
  The purpose of this paper is to integrate and extend the above approaches
for estimating steady-state evaporation from bare soils under high
water-table conditions. The past approaches are unified, modified, and
supplemented when necessary to improve their practicability as a general
(though approximate) method.
  Stress has been placed on use of readily available data, simple parameter-
determination techniques, dimensionless variables, and simple graphical
or algebraic treatments. Numerical integrations have been avoided.
The older approaches are generalized so as to make them applicable to
layered as well as homogeneous soils. In addition, analysis of the multi-
layer case is modified to allow for the treatment of evaporation affected
by water-vapor transfer. Examples of the results obtained with the
suggested method are presented, discussed, and utilized for demonstrating
the role of some of the relevant factors.

THEORY

  The steady-state evaporative fluxes across the boundary between any
given soil-atmosphere system may be described by two functional rela-
tions. The first deals with the fluxes leaving the soil surface and entering
the atmosphere. It may be represented by the meteorological equation
The second described the fluxes between the water table and the soil
surface and may be expressed by the soil equation
