    Two sets of linear features, probably fractures, were identified in the 
Tram Member from the acoustic-televiewer log.  In the interval from 821 to 
929 m, lineations dipping about 60~ to 80~ to the southwest were common.  At a 
greater depth--the interval from 1,029 to 1,107 m--lineations dipping 70~ to 
85~ to the northeast and east were logged.  Because the principal conductive 
zone for the well is from 809 to 840.9 m (table 3), most of these probable 
fractures do not conduct significant amounts of ground water.

        Beneath the Tram Member and the thin, underlying bedded tuff, the well 
penetrated 110 m of Lithic Ridge Tuff.  It is a partially welded, relatively 
porous ash-flow tuff (table 1).  A thin interval from 1,120.1 to 1,120.4 m was 
more conductive than the remainder of the unit (table 3).

        All the saturated rocks have very small apparent, average horizontal 
hydraulic conductivity (table 3).  The order of magnitude of hydraulic conduc-
tivity generally ranges from 10-2 to 10-4 m/d.  The calculated values of 
storage coefficient are very small also, ranging from 4x10-6 to 7x10-6 for 
four tests (table 2).   Transmissivity of the penetrated part of the saturated 
zone, mostly rocks of the Tram Member, is no greater than about 1 m2/d.

             CONCLUSIONS

       At the site of this well, results of hydraulic tests, hydrologic monitor-
ing, and geophysical log interpretations indicate that:

     1. The Bullfrog Member and the overlying stratigraphic units commonly 
have intervals that are intensively fractured and relatively porous.  They 
generally are unsaturated and are permeable to downward percolating water 
recharging the ground-water system from precipitation and runoff.  However, 
the quantity of recharge from precipitation and runoff is very small because 
of the water-availability limits imposed by the desert climate.
     2. The water table is at a depth of 750.7 m in the bedded tuff underly-
ing the Bullfrog Member.  In the 2-m-thick interval at the base of the Bull-
frog Member, perched water or drilling fluids may be present.  All saturated 
strata to the total depth of the well have very small permeability.
     3. The most transmissive part of the saturated zone is in the upper part 
of the Tram Member, the interval from 809 to 840.9 m. The penetrated part of 
the saturated zone has an apparent horizontal transmissivity of about 1 m2/d 
or less.
     4. The conceptual model presented in this report is a reasonable repre-
sentation of the actual fracture-flow system near the test well.
36
