   The second series of tests (T4 through T6) was designed similarly to the
first series; however, prior to the tests, the bottom string of casing was
perforated from 86.9 to 213.4 m, using approximately 33 shots per 10 m. To
determine if water moved around a bridge plug to be installed near the bottom
of the casing, a wireline tool containing sodium bromide was lowered to a
depth of 260 m and signaled to release the salt; discharge water subsequently
was analyzed for bromide. A removable bridge plug, with a pressure recorder
mounted below the bridge plug, was set at a depth of 245.4 m (center of plug).
The pump and a perforated (92 to 220 m) access line then were installed.

   Details of the tests are presented in table 5; drawdown, recovery, and
discharge data are presented in figure 9; temperature and tracejector logs
during T6 are presented in figure 10. The logging tools were run inside 
perforated tubing adjacent to the discharge line; because of the constriction, 
measured rates are less than pump discharge. Bromide appeared in the dis-
charge water shortly after pumping started.

   During T6, the generator supplying power to the pump failed and had to be
replaced. During rewiring, two wires were inadvertently switched, so the
pump ran backwards. The first tracejector log was run during this period of 
low discharge; when upward flow in the borehole was discovered, the trace-
jector test was aborted; at this time, water levels in UE-29a#1 were rising
rather than declining. Later, the pump leads were correctly wired, causing 
an increase in the discharge rate; a new tracejector log then was obtained.

   Throughout the second series of tests, maximum discharge rates always
were less than during the first series, even though power consumption was the
same. When the pump was removed, pieces of the perforating charges and wiring
were found in the pump intake and pump. These pieces probably were caught in
the perforations and subsequently were sucked into the pump intake, clogging
it; therefore, the efficiency of the pump was decreased. In future tests 
where extensive perforating is performed, it may be advisable to clean the 
hole with a casing scraper before installing the pump.

   Samples for determination of water chemistry were collected at the ends  
of T3 and T6. Data for these analyses are presented in table 4.  

   After the pump and bridge plug were removed, a wireline sample was used
to obtain samples from four different depths. These samples were analyzed for
temperature, dissolved-oxygen concentration, pH, and bromide concentration.
Results are given in table 6.

      Data Collected After Testing Was Completed

Unperforated tubing with an inside diameter of 3.5-cm was worked a few
meters into the material at the bottom of UE-29a#2 to provide future access in
case the hole caved, and to obtain hydraulic-head information in the fill to
compare with heads measured in the open hole (annulus). Results of water-
level measurements in UE-29a#1 and the open hole and tubing in UE-29a#2 are
presented in table 7.


18
