Mineral Resources of Nye County     215


longest, is in about 200 feet. Place states that most of the work
has been done on a vein of white quartz, 1-3 feet wide, which
contains free gold and arsenopyrite.  He states that this vein can 
be traced for 4,300 feet. The present owner became interested
in the ground in 1932 and installed a small mill with which he 
milled 50 tons of the better dump rock.  He states that he recov-
ered about $450 and decided to stop his activity until he could 
become associated with someone having a better knowledge of
mining operations.
  A property commonly known as the Melbourn group, lies about
1 mile above the Colorado group on the northwest side of Willow
Creek. As previously mentioned, this property was discovered 
in 1913 and the high-grade found caused considerable excitement.
The ground was later sold to Ely interests and was known as the
Goodman property.  Hill states that the vein strikes N. 67~ W.
and dips 40-70~ S. It is 10-18 inches wide and consists of
crushed white quartz with a green talc along the seams.  The
values are largely in native gold which usually occurs in the talc.
The vein is in altered lime shale associated with an andesite dike.
It is reported that the ground was once leased by Cassidy and
Cater who produced about $25,000.  The property is reportedly
opened by several adits, the lower of which is known as the Good-
man tunnel.
  About 4 miles air line south of the Willow Creek properties is
a group of fluorite claims known as the Spar, reportedly owned
by A. F. W. Carlson and C. W. Jones of Bishop, California.  The
claims are estimated to be at an elevation of 8,000 feet.  They
are reached from the Adaven post office by traveling generally
southwest 12 miles to the Pine Creek ranch, then 6 miles up Pine
Creek.  Although a "Jeep" road of sorts has been built to within
a few hundred feet of the principal workings, it is necessary to
walk about one-half mile up this road.  The best fluorite was seen
at the lower workings where a short adit and winze have been
dug on a 5-foot width of high-grade spar occurring in a limestone
cliff.  Several short adits and cuts expose the same or a parallel
shear zone bearing westerly up a steep slope.  It appears that this
zone is along the south contact of a large rhyolite dike with the
limestone.  Faulting along this area has caused a slight ravine to
the ridge which is about 800 feet west of the lower adit.  The 
owners' sample returns show values ranging from 75 to 98.6
percent CaF2.  Several exposures were seen where high-grade
fluorite could be sorted from the softer waste rock.
  A property of unknown ownership, known as the Dresser Mine,
