30  Mineral Resources of Nye Count~
  The Pioneer district is considered as part of the Bullfrog and
the production is included with the figures given. Recorded pro-
duction is only shown for 1909-1910 and is $44,491 from 2,122 
tons or a value of $21 per ton. Sawyer reports the discovery of
the Pioneer mine to have been made here in 1907 by an employee
of W. J. Tobin, but the excitement over the strike lagged and the
actual boom did not come about until December 1908. The May-
flower mine, adjacent to the Pioneer, had been working since
1906. The Pioneer area has had intermittent activity since the
early days but only a small production has been made since 1910.
  Present conditions in the Bullfrog district are considerably
changed from what they were in the boom days of the camp.
Beatty is now the principal town and, although some intermittent
mining is done in this district and the Crowell Fluorspar mine is
active in the adjoining Fluorine district, the main source of
income is probably the tourist business. Roads to the mines in
the area are good and general climatic conditions allow work and
access to the properties the year around. The nearest rail point
is now Las Vegas, 115 miles distant. The Tonopah and Tide-
water, the last railroad in the area, discontinued service in 1939.
The Nevada-California Power Company's lines have long since
been removed, the company having ceased supplying power in
December 1916. The only present power source is a diesel-electric
plant in Beatty supplying power for domestic use in that commu-
nity.
  Geology. As Ransome, Emmons and Garrey made a complete
study of the Bullfrog geology, it will be best to quote directly
from their writings.20

  The prevailing rocks of the area studied-~the ones
that give character to the topography, and contain the
ore deposits-~are rhyolitic flows of Tertiary age. Much
older rocks, however, are exposed in the southwestern
and southeastern parts of the district.

  These are schists, quartzites, marbles, and injected gneisses,
all highly metamorphosed, overlain in some places by less meta-
morphosed limestone of probable Silurian age. They further
state:

  The Tertiary rocks, which have an aggregate thickness
of at least 6,000 feet cover most of the area and contain
all the known ore bodies of importance. The greater
part of the series is rhyolite, and sixteen successive for-
20Op. cit., U. S. Geog. Survey Bull. 407, pp. 14-18.
