1046 Industrial Minerals and Rocks
26 eastern states referred to indicated the sur-
ficial occurrence of approximately 67 mapped,
named, and formally accepted stratigraphic
units that might have an economic potential in
this industry. Lithologically, these break down
into quartz-mica schists, quartzites, sandstones
(variable in degree of consolidation), quartz 
conglomerates, quartz gravels, and several
widely separated tripoli districts. Also included
were many geologically undesignated dune sand
occurrences, terrace sands and gravels, com-
mercial chert deposits, massive quartz pegma-
tites, hydrothermal replacement bodies and
silicified zones, some of which have been and
probably are viable from an economic point
of view.
  In this connection there are many scattered,
very pure, silica sand deposits of Holocene age
along the coastal plains of South Carolina,
Georgia, and Florida, some of which have been
and are being reworked by wind and the present
river systems. Another interesting and valuable
source type may be referred to as the St.
Lucie soil zone which is well-developed along
a stretch of east Florida coast particularly
in St. Lucie county (Hudson, 1946), the type
locality, as well as inland in this state and in
south Georgia (Teas, 1921). The key to the
purity of these deposits relates to a fluctuating
ground water table and an excess of azohumic
and other organic acids resulting from decaying
swamp vegetation which leaches the iron nor-
mally present in the surficial sand. This organic
chemistry develops the so-called Van Dyke or
sap-brown ore at the base of the leached zone
which was much sought after as an organic dye 
for paint, wood stains, and inks before the ad-
vent of aniline dyes. Most of these types of
deposits are from 4 to possibly 12 ft thick on
flat terrain with consequent disappointingly low
tonnages. However, they are commercially
viable at a few points in each of the states men-
tioned and can supply local flint glass sand
markets for indeterminant periods of time if
extensive enough, which several have proved to
be. The inevitable silica sand rings which par-
tially surround the puzzling "Carolina Bays,"
are believed to be a manifestation of this leach-
ing and in one instance were commercially ex-
ploited for several years in Williamsburg
County, South Carolina (Buie, 1958).
  Two formational units for high grade ceramic
products exposed in the eastern and a few
middle western states warrant detailed citation
as the most successfully exploited silica raw
material sources on the basis of tonnage and
profit in this country. They are the St. Peter
sandstone together with its stratigraphic equiva
lents of Lower Ordovician age, and the Ori~
kany sandstone or orthoquartzite of Lower
Devonian age. The St. Peter is exposed and 
exploited principally in northern Illinois and,
to a lesser degree, in southern Wisconsin and
Missouri. Sandstones of the same time equiva-
lency also are exploited in Arkansas and Okla-
homa (Lamar, 1927; Ham, 1945). These for-
mations are relatively flat-lying and massively
bedded materials of weak to moderate consoli-
dation that lend themselves equally well to 
open pit or underground mining recovery, both
methods being currently employed. Physical
recovery is high and a minimum of plant
preparation is necessary because of its extreme
natural purity. Reserves are large and nearly
completely controlled by current producers.
Even deeply covered areas, now unused be-
cause of excessive stripping costs or otherwise
marginal because of local factors, have been
explored and acquired by operating companies
for possible future use. What little St. Peter
sandstone that remains under private owner-
ship will soon be, if it has not already been,
completely zoned out of the market by urbani-
zation pressures.
  The Oriskany quartzite, more precisely the
Ridgeley sandstone (Harris, 1972), is a ridge
maker, to a large degree, because of its greater
induration and consequent structural attitudes.
For the most part it is found in strongly 
dipping beds ranging from 45~ to the vertical
and even overturned. In a few areas it is as
flat-bedded as the St. Peter, whereas, locally, it
may be preserved intact in homoclinal, anti-
clinal, and synclinal postures (Bates, 1960).
Being an integral part of the Appalachian High-
lands, its economic occurrences are pretty well
limited to the tri-state area of Virginia, West
Virginia, and Pennsylvania. The texture, purity,
and degree of induration are all subject to ex-
treme variability which is much less seldom
encountered with the St. Peter. However, by
and large, it shares the same perfection of grain
that the St. Peter enjoys and most of the defects
are secondarily induced and can be mitigated
and often nearly eliminated by suitable plant
beneficiation. Here again, all known reserves 
in the technical sense and much that could be
classed as potential resource acreage is believed
to be owned by, or under long-term lease to
local operating companies. A substantial por-
tion of what is already controlled will doubtless
never be completely exploited because of the 
ever-increasing zonal restrictions due to urbani-
zation.
