32 GOLDFIELD, BULLFROG, AND OTHER DISTRICTS, NEVADA.


are directly in contact with unsilicified country rock. Some of the
pay shoots are mere bunches or "pockets."  On the Velvet claim, for
example, several thousand dollars' worth of rich ore was found at the
surface, but efforts to find a continuation of this shoot in depth have
thus far been futile. The St. Ives, Simmerone, and Conqueror(Tonopah
Club) mines have had similar histories, although this in itself does not
warrant the conclusion that deeper ore bodies may not yet be found in
these properties. The Kendall mine at the time of visit had produced
about $100,000, all from ore within 60 feet of the surface, and the
deeper workings at that time showed no ore worth shipping. The
rich ore of the Sandstorm mine has all come from very irregular pay
shoots, which in many cases rest on flat floors of hard, barren, silicified


rhyolite. These bodies are usually
found at the intersection of later
cross fissures with the main silicified
ledge. Although some rich ore has
recently been opened at a depth of
100 feet, the bulk of the production
has come from ore within 50 feet of the
surface. The ore bodies first worked
in the Combination mine occurred in
short irregular shoots, most of them
at points of intersection of two or
more fissure zones and with a tendency
to a vertically elongated or pipelike
form. A sketch plan of one of these
shoots on level A is shown in fig. 8,
and in fig. 9 are represented plans of
shoots on the level below. At
greater depth these irregular pay
shoots appear to come together, and
on level D the deposit is lodelike,


with a length of about 250 feet. About 100 feet of this is shipping
ore, the rest being of milling grade.
  The so-called "No. 2 shoot" of the Combination mine is, with
the possible exception of the Jumbo pay shoot, the longest and most
regular body of ore known in the district, having been stoped on the
130-foot or B level (fig. 9) for over 300 feet. Moreover, it is separated
by only a short, barren interval from the Reilly ore body, which is
on the same line of fissuring. This pay shoot is the hanging-wall
portion of a shattered silicified ledge, 30 to 40 feet wide, which
strikes northwest and dips northeast at angles ranging from 75~ to
80~. The ore, which is up to 6 feet in width, has no walls and
can not always be distinguished by the eye from the barren or
low-grade ledge matter. It lies near, but not always in contact


FIG. 8.-~Sketch plan of pay shoot on A level
         of the Combination mine.

