C20  CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
quartz veins, ranging from 25 to 100 feet in length and 6 inches to 8 feet
in thickness, lie en echelon along the altered area; they strike N.
60~-70~ E., transverse to the altered zone. Fluorite is erratically dis-
tributed in the veins, and the content ranges from a trace to as much as
50 percent of the vein material. In some veins the fluorite forms a distinct
crustiform center surrounded by vein quartz; in others, the fluorite is
intergrown with quartz, chalcedony, albite( ?), and calcite.

SUGGESTIONS FOR EXPLORATION OF FLUORITE DEPOSITS

  The best commercial fluorite deposits are more likely to occur in a lime-
stone host than in a volcanic one.
  The deposits in altered volcanic rocks probably are too low in grade
to support large-scale mining under 1969 prices, and veins rich enough
to warrant selective mining are small. However, richer replacement
bodies in Paleozoic limestone may have formed beneath the volcanic
cover approximately coincident with the extensive altered zones of areas
5 through 8 and along the northwest alinement of the zones. This depth
may approximate 1,000 feet in areas 5 and 6.
  Deposits in limestone contain the best grade ore, locally 90 percent
CaF2 by weight. In some of the deposits, fluorite completely replaces
limestone, but it rarely if ever replaces silicified fragments of limestone,
quartzite, or rhyolite. Hence the grade of ore in the silicified breccias
will never be as good as that possible in the limestone; also, a penalty is
incurred for silica in fluorspar ore. However, because most of the fluorite
in the brecciated jasperized limestone coats and cements breccia frag-
ments, the bulk of the fluorite can be recovered by crushing to half-inch
grain size and screening out the undersize, which contains the fluorite.
Standard flotation methods can be used to separate fluorite and silica
to produce acid-grade (97 percent CaF2) fluorspar, and since metal-
lurgical grade spar need only have an effective CaF2 content of 60 per-
cent, the deposits in silicified breccias should not be neglected. To
separate calcite from fluorite by flotation requires expensive heating of
the flotation feed, and the cost of this, in particular, somewhat offsets
the higher grade of the known replacement deposits in limestone.
  The possible importance of the deposits in limestone is supported by
the striking resemblance of the Hi-Grade and Mammoth deposits to very
rich, important pipelike deposits seen by Sainsbury in the Rio Verde in
Mexico; at both places fluorite forms fine-grained, colloformly banded,
vuggy ore in limestone near the contact between limestone and volcanic
rocks. The drab color and fine grain of the fluorite make visual recogni-
tion of the fluorite difficult; confidence in recognition of deposits during
prospecting is gained only after considerable familiarity with known
deposits.
