42 MINERAL AND WATER RESOURCES OF NEVADA


Mesozoic siliceous and volcanic rocks and Tertiary volcanic rocks.
On the other hand, eastern Nevada is underlain largely by Pre-
cambrian metamorphic and sedimentary rocks and Paleozoic car-
bonate rocks locally covered by Tertiary volcanic rocks (Nolan, 1943,
1962).
  These differences in rock types of western and eastern Nevada must
reflect fundamental differences within the crust, which are further
reflected in the distinctive metal suites of the two areas. Western
and eastern Nevada accordingly are two distinct metallogenic prov-
inces (see fig. 12); western Nevada contains the major gold, silver,
tungsten, antimony, mercury, and iron deposits thus far discovered
(Ferguson, 1944; Nolan, 1950). Eastern Nevada contains the major
lead and zinc deposits with associated gold and silver deposits.
  The division between the two provinces is not a sharp line, but
rather a broad transitional zone that follows along the 117~ meridian
in southern Nevada, and swings northeastward to the 115~ meridian
in the northern part of the State (fig. 12). Deposits within the transi-
tional zone include representatives of both provinces; likewise, in
eastern Nevada, the base metal deposits are ringed by precious metal
and antimony zones. Major copper deposits may be found in both
provinces; evidently copper is not so directly related to crustal rock
type but may be derived from sources below the crust within the
mantle. The sources of metals and their mode of transport upward
are yet not clearly understood.
  Within the two metallogenic provinces in Nevada, regional struc-
tural and lithologic controls were important in localizing districts and
ore bodies. On figures 13 and 14 it appears that a number of districts
are localized along northwest and northeast trends. These mineral
belts in Nevada have been discussed briefly by Roberts (1957, 1960).
One extends from Battle Mountain to Eureka; along this belt (Roberts,
1960, p. 18) detailed mapping has shown that the major ore bodies
occur in windows of carbonate rocks through the upper plate of the
Roberts Mountains thrust and in association with intrusive rocks
(fig. 14). The windows represent domal uplifts that began in the
Pennsylvanian and were accentuated during intrusive activity in
Mesozoic or early Tertiary time. The northwest alinement of win-
dows and associated ore deposits suggests some major structural con-
trol for both the domal uplifts and mineral belts. Except for the
arching, no displacement is noted along the belt; moreover, the 
Paleozoic and Mesozoic facies do not seem to be displaced along the
belts and it is therefore inferred that the belts are ancient structural
features that may be of Precambrian age.
  Metallization along the belts varies considerably in type and kind.
In the Battle Mountain-Eureka belt, for example, ore deposits in the
Osgood Mountains area, 35 miles northwest of Battle Mountain,
include gold, mercury, and tungsten deposits; at Battle Mountain,
copper, gold, and lead-zinc-silver deposits; at Cortez, silver, lead, and
zinc deposits, and at the Buckhorn district, 6 miles east of Cortez,
gold deposits (Vanderburg, 1938; H. Masursky, oral communication,
1963). These occurrences may reflect zoning of metals, different metal-
logenic provinces, metallization at different times, or different levels of
erosion. The tungsten and mercury deposits in the Osgood Moun-
tains are characteristic of the western metallogenic province; the silver-
lead-zinc deposits at Battle Mountain and Cortez are characteristic

