64     MINERAL AND WATER RESOURCES OF NEVADA


  The Pansy-Lee mine (No. 41) in the Krum Hills (secs. 1 and 12,
T. 36 N., R. 36 E.), 11 miles northwest of Winnemucca, in Humboldt
County, also has produced antimony as a byproduct.  However, un-
like the Potosi mine and Arabia district above, tetrahedrite is the only
primary antimony mineral present. Approximately 200 tons of
antimony have been recovered from lead-zinc-copper ores mined from
veins that strike N. 20~ E. to N. 50~ W. and vary from a few inches to
several feet in width. They consist mainly of quartz with lesser
amounts of calcite, tetrahedrite, sphalerite, galena, pyrite, arseno-
pyrite, and yellow antimony oxides. Concentrates shipped in 1942
averaged 2 percent antimony, 0.6 ounces of gold and 50 to 60 ounces o
silver per ton, in addition to the lead, zinc, and copper. The wallrock
is slate.
  The Antimony King mine (No. 3) in Bernice Canyon (sec. 23, T. 22
N., R. 37 E.) on the west flank of the Clan Alpine Range in Churchill
County produced approximately 175 tons of antimony mainly during
both World Wars. A 2- to 48-inch quartz vein, striking N. 10~ to 25~
E. and dipping 55~ W., roughly parallels a highly brecciated latitic (?)
sill, in some places following the hanging wall and elsewhere following
the footwall. The sill intrudes shale and limestone of the Triassic
Star Peak Formation. Pods, blebs, and veinlets of stibnite occur in
the quartz vein and in the silicified and sercitized sill. Some arseno-
pyrite, pyrite, and sphalerite are associated with the stibnite. In the
immediate vicinity of the Antimony King mine, the I.H.X. and Ar-
rance mines (No. 3) have produced some 50 tons of antimony from
quite similar deposits along this sill, and a second parallel sill.
  The Last Chance mine (No. 62) on the divide (sec. 17, T. 10 N.,
R. 42 E.) between Wall and San Pablo Canyons, on the east flank of
the Toiyabe Range, Nye County, produced 192 tons of antimony
during World War I and II. Several veins, consisting of brecciated
wall rock, gouge, some quartz, calcite, stibnite, and pyrite, and minor
tetrahedrite, cut highly contorted Permian(?) limestone and shale. 
The main vein strikes N. 70~ E. and dips 45~ to 55~ NW. Several
rhyolite porphyry dikes intrude the sedimentary rocks.
  The Cottonwood Canyon mine (No. 42) in Little Cottonwood
Canyon, (sec. 35, T. 32 N., R. 43 E. and sec. 2, T. 31 N., R. 43 E.),
on the east flank of Antler Peak, in Lander County, has produced
156 tons of antimony. A main vein with several splits strikes N.
15~ to 30~ E. and dips 45~ to 80~ W. in a north-trending fault zone
cutting Mississippian argillite, shale, quartzite, and chert. A quartz-
porphyry dike intrudes the sediments. East-trending faults offset both
the fault zone and vein. The vein is up to 48 inches wide, and con-
tains abundant quartz and gouge, with some calcite, stibnite, and
pyrite.
  Antimony occurrences that have produced less than a hundred tons
are shown on figure 16 and described by Lawrence (1963). Several
are of special interest because of unusual features or associations.
At the Oreana (Little Tungsten) mine (No. 80), south of Rocky
Canyon (sec. 3, T. 29 N., R. 33 E.) on the western flank of the Hum-
boldt Range, Pershing County, rare native antimony is associated
with scheelite and beryl in a quartz-oligoclase-albite-phlogopite
pegmatite body. At Steamboat Springs (No. 98), 10 miles south of
Reno in Washoe County, stibnite and "metastibnite" occur with

