161
FIG. 7.  Conditions of formation of uranium deposits in limestone above a sandstone paleoaquifer.
that fine-grained sediments with indigenous reducing capacity often reflect 
this capacity by decoloration of adjacent coarser-grained sediments (such 
as sandstones and conglomerates) from their normally red hues to a grey 
or white color, which may subsequently become drab because of limonite 
formation.  This red to white transformation appears to be caused by H2S 
which has migrated into the porous red clastics.  We have noted also how 
coarse clastics charged with H2S cause reduction of red underclays changing 
them to green or grey, e.g., in the Salt Wash member of the Morrison Formation 
on the Colorado Plateau.

In this section of the paper several examples will be given where reducing 
conditions appear to be involved in ore formation in fine-grained sediments.  
Although the circumstances cited relate in a few cases to the formation of 
deposits of metals other than uranium, the conditions represented conceivably 
provide opportunity for uranium deposition and should therefore be given 
consideration in uranium exploration planning.

Uranium ores are not commonly found associated with limestone in the 
U. S. A.  Only two occurrences warrant mention.  One is the deposit at 
Grants, New Mexico, where ore occurs in the Todilto Limestone of Jurassic 
age, and the other is in the Pryor Mountains along the Montana-Wyoming 
State line.  The Pryor Mountain occurrence has been of little economic 
significance, and very little is known about the ore controls in this area.  
The Grants District, on the other hand, has been studied in detail and 
consequently a great deal has been revealed about the host rock and its 
relationship to ore.

The Todilto ore deposits are concentrated where the limestone has been 
deformed locally by intraformational folds and intensely fractured.  
Underlying the Todilto is a thick clean permeable eolian sandstone 
(Entrada Formation) consisting of an upper zone of bleached sandstone 
several tens of feet thick lying between the Todilto contact and the main 
body of red Entrada sand (Figs. 2, 4).  It has been suggested on the basis 
of the presence of small amounts of fluorite that the Todilto uranium ores 
may have been deposited from solutions having a magmatic hydrothermal 
component.  However, as the ore is not associated with faults, the only
