152              Quicksilver Deposits in Nevada
feet by 20 feet deep. The glory holes are tapped by two adits
having a combined length of 750 feet.  More than 20 shallow
prospect pits have been dug along a fault which extends north-
westerly from the glory holes, and two short adits were driven
across the canyon from the main deposit in search for addi-
tional ore.  (See Plate 16.)
  The area is underlain by Tertiary volcanic rocks that are
divided into three units. The two older units are acid tuffs and
flows, whereas the youngest is a fairly thick flow of dacite. The
oldest beds strike N. 85~ W. and dip 10~ to the north. Where
not silicified they crop out in few places, but they are well
exposed in parts of the glory holes and in crosscuts and drifts.
A silicified part of this unit contains the ore that has been mined
in the two glory holes. The younger unit of pyroclastic rocks
consists of vitrophyric tuff and agglomerate; the presence of
black glass distinguishes it from the older unit, but the contact
is everywhere gradational. The youngest lithologic unit, a thick
flow of hornblende dacite, is faulted against the ore-bearing tuff
and agglomerate. In the western part of the mapped area the
dacite forms a prominent dark-colored hogback which trends
northwesterly and dips toward the canyon.
  The ore bodies show some of the characteristics of both the
opalite and volcanic types of deposits.  They have, however, been
classed as being of the volcanic type because of the prevalence of
clay alteration and because of the localization of the ore along
steep fractures.  Cinnabar occurs in silicified tuff and agglomer-
ate as narrow veins, the central parts of which are fracture fill-
ings while the borders are narrow bands of disseminated cinnabar
crystals.  Cinnabar is also present as random disseminated crys-
tals in unaltered tuff.  Locally the cinnabar is found as abundant
"painty" films in the fault gouge which separates the dacite and
pyroclastic rocks, and in places it occurs in broken vitrophyre
as narrow veinlets filling short irregular fractures.
  The only known ore body on the property is that which was
mined in the two glory holes. Apparently it was localized beneath
the fault that separates the dacite from the pyroclastic rocks
where the cinnabar occurred along a series of fractures which,
although dipping at various steep angles, strike nearly parallel to
the major fault. The southeastern extension of the fault does not
appear to have been adequately explored.

                         SAN PEDRO MINE
  Location~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sec. 31, T. 12 N., R. 40 E.
  Ownership~~~~~~~~~~H. R. and Ella M. Humphrey, S. Chiatovich,
                       and E. J. Shirley.

