termed the Ash Meadows and Pahute Mesa groundwater basins. It must be noted
that the existence of two regional groundwater basins is an unproven
hypothesis. It is possible that there is only a single, large regional
groundwater basin. Winograd and Thordarson (31) summarize the evidence for
this hypothesis as follows:

1. The carbonate aquifer underlies both the ridges and the saturated
   Cenozoic aquifers and aquitards beneath the valley floors. It has
   been suggested that this aquifer averages approximately 4,000 feet
   thick throughout the study area. Thus, it seems both possible and
   probable that an interbasin movement of water occurs in this aquifer.
2. The water table elevations in the Cenozoic aquifers and aquitards of
   Yucca, Frenchman, and Jackass Flats differ by less than 170 feet and
   the lowest water levels in these areas differ by only 9 feet. This
   similarity in water table elevations suggests that these valleys are
   graded to a common discharge area.
3. The chemical quality of the water from the lower carbonate aquifer
   beneath Yucca and Frenchman Flats closely resembles that of the water
   emerging from the major springs in the Ash Meadows area. In contrast,
   the water in the Cenozoic aquifers is chemically quite different
   from that emerging in Ash Meadows.
4. About 10,000 gallons per minute of water emerges from the springs in
   Ash Meadows. Given the size of this basin and the aridity of the
   environment, this is entirely too much discharge; i.e., discharge
   would exceed recharge. Thus, this too suggests an interbasin trans-
   fer of water.
The evidence for the interbasin transfer of groundwater by the lower car-
bonate aquifer seems to be sufficient to accept the basic hypothesis that such
transfers do take place. However, there are a number of difficulties with
the details of the theory. These problems are:

1. Figure 4 is a map from Naff et al. (24) showing the estimated extent
   of the Ash Meadows groundwater flow system. In this figure, the Ash
   Meadows system is shown to be separate from the Pahute Mesa and Pahrump
   flow systems. This indicates that the Ash Meadows spring discharge
52
