38             OUTLINE OF GROUND-WATER HYDROLOGY.


  The piezometric surface of an aquifer is an imaginary surface that
everywhere coincides with the static level of the water in the aquifer.
It is the surface to which the water from a given aquifer will rise under
its full head (figs. 11 and 12). If at any given place the water from
different depths in the aquifer will rise to different levels the aquifer
has more than one piezometric surface. 
  An isopiestic line of an aquifer is a contour of the piezometric surface
of the aquifer. It is an imaginary line all points along which have
the same static level. Its position may be described in any con-
venient unit and with reference to any convenient datum, but is
most commonly expressed in feet or meters above mean sea level.
A piestic interval is the difference in static level between two isopiestic
lines. (See fig. 12.)


  The hydraulic gradient, or pressure gradient, of an aquifer at a given
place in a given direction is the rate of change of pressure head per
unit of distance at that place and in that direction.  If the direction
is not mentioned it is generally understood that the direction of
maximum rate of change is meant. If the rate of change is uniform
between two points the hydraulic gradient between these points is
the ratio of the difference in the static level between the points to the
horizontal distance between them. The hydraulic gradient can be
expressed in percentage, in feet per mile, or in other ways.
  A hydraulic profile of an aquifer is a vertical section of its piezo-
metric surface.
  Ground water may be said to have artesian, normal, or subnormal
pressure or pressure head, according as its static level is above the
upper surface of the zone of saturation, at this surface, or below this
surface (fig. 11).


FIGURE 11.-~Sections showing hydrostatic pressure in aquifers and wells. In A the lower aquifer has
subnormal head, its piezometric surface is below the upper surface of the zone of saturation, the resultant
hydrostatic pressure on the confining bed is downward, and the bed may be called a negative confining
bed. Both wells are nonartesian. The water in the upper aquifer is semiperched-~it belongs to the
same zone of saturation as the lower aquifer. In B the lower aquifer has artesian head, its piezometric
surface is above the upper surface of the zone of saturation and in some places above the land surface,
the resultant hydrostatic pressure on the confining bed is upward, and the bed may be called a positive
confining bed.  No. 1 is a nonartesian well, No. 2 a subartesian well, and No. 3 a flowing well. The
static level of the water in the lower aquifer at the intake of well No. 3 is at l, and its pressure head
with reference to the land surface is the vertical distance ~. aa' is an area of artesian flow.

