                           FLOOD CONTROL               543.590


  (3) A comparison of the total cost of the proposed works with an
estimate of the cost of condemnation and relocation or replacement of
property within the boundaries of the flood plain.
  3. The chief engineer and general manager shall, from time to time,
as directed by the board, file with the board supplementary, amenda-
tory and additional reports and recommendations as necessity and con-
venience may require.
  4. The chief engineer and general manager may, subject to the con-
trol and direction of the board, employ such other engineers, surveyors
and other persons required for making all surveys and doing any work
necessary for the making of the reports.
  (Added to NRS by 1961, 437)

  543.590 Survey, report of flood control problems; review by state
agencies; preparation of comprehensive program of flood control; pro-
cedure.
  1. After a district has been established, the board shall cause its
chief engineer or qualified private engineers or consultants to make a
survey of the flood control problems of the district and to prepare a
report setting forth:
  (a) A description of existing flood control facilities in the area.
  (b) Recommendations as to cooperation between the district and the
owner or owners of such existing facilities.
  (c) Recommendations for the construction or other acquisition of
facilities to carry out the purpose of the district, with a preliminary
plan therefor.
  (d) A description of the property proposed to be acquired or dam-
aged in the performance of work.
  (e) A map showing the district boundaries and location of the work
proposed to be done.
  (f) Such other facts and information as the board may request.
  2. Before submission to the board, the report shall be submitted to
the health division of the department of human resources for review of
any portions concerning water pollution and shall then be submitted to
the state department of conservation and natural resources for revision
and comment and returned to the board. In the preparation of the
report, the director of the state department of conservation and natural
resources and the health division may assist in preliminary planning by:
  (a) The assignment of state technical, professional and administrative
personnel.
  (b) Providing engineering and other planning data.
  (c) Acting as coordinating and liaison agents between the district and
participating local, state and federal agencies.
  Funds expended in preliminary planning may, upon application to
the director of the state department of conservation and natural
resources and to the health division, be refunded, if funds for these
purposes have been appropriated by the legislature.


(1979)                         21019
