contrast only 1 of the 51 samples would be rejected on the basis of the 10%
criterion and the calculation method commonly used.

The more stringent criterion for the acceptability of chemical analyses (i.e.,
< 5 percent error) is probably unwarranted and results in the loss of useful
data. The loss of useful data is an issue of significance because hydrochem-
ical data in most groundwater zones at the BWIP site are sparse.

The data summarized in the SCR and that provided at the BWIP hydrogeology work-
shop include:

o 45 groundwater samples from 21 boreholes in the Saddle Mountains Basalt
o 27 groundwater samples from six boreholes in the Wanapum Basalt
o 18 groundwater samples from four boreholes in the Grande Ronde Basalt.

Relative to the number of borehole monitoring sites that are commonly used in
important studies of hydrogeological systems in which major waste disposal is
under consideration, the number of boreholes that penetrate the proposed
disposal zone is small. All of the deep holes are located a considerable
distance to the east or southeast of the Reference Repository (Figure F-1). For
statistical data evaluations, the total number of chemical analyses from the
Grande Ronde is particularly inadequate. The hydrochemical data represent
groundwater obtained from the most permeable zones in the stratigraphic
sequence, and they generally cannot be used to ascertain the chemical composi-
tion of water in the lower permeability zones.

4 HYDROCHEMISTRY

4.1 Major Ion Chemistry

The groundwater in the basalt formations at the Hanford site can be categorized
according to its major-ion chemical composition. There are three principal
chemical types characterized by the predominant ions:

o Na - HCO3
o Na - Cl - HCO3
o Na - Cl

The vertical distributions of these chemical types in the groundwater in bore-
holes DB-15, DC-6, DC-12, DC-14, and DC-15 are shown in Figure F-2. The Na-HCO3
groundwater generally occurs in the Saddle Mountains Basalt, the Na-Cl-HCO3 in
the Wanapum Basalt, and the Na-Cl groundwater in the Grande Ronde Basalt. In
borehole DC-12, Na-Cl-HCO3 groundwater occurs in both the Wanapum and Grande
Ronde Basalt. The progression from Na-HCO3 groundwater in the upper basalt
formations to Na-Cl groundwater at depth is associated with a moderate increase
in total dissolved solids concentrations from an average of 400 mg/L in the
Saddle Mountains to an average of 800 mg/L in the Grande Ronde.

A generalization that is commonly used in regional groundwater studies is that
the progression from Na-HCO3 through Na-Cl-HCO3 to Na-Cl generally represents
a long-term hydrochemical evolution in which the Na-Cl groundwater represents
F-5
