18                ADSORPTION, ~~RFACE AR~A AND POROSITY


double layer formed between the free electrons at the metal surface and a
corresponding inner positive charge. This contribution to the potential
energy may again be written


where F and ~ have the same meanings as before.
  It seems likely that with certain adsorbates (e.g. saturated hydrocarbons)
on metals, the electrostatic contribution may actually constitute the major
portion of the total adsorption energy (ca 5~00 kcal mole-1); but with non-
polar molecules adsorbed on insulators it is probably quite small (e.g. for
argon on potassium chloride, U(~) is probably about 0~250 kcal mole-1)
except on particularly active spots such as the edges or corners of crystals,
or regions of crystal imperfection.
  From consideration of equation (1.7) it is clear that if adsorption involves
predominantly dispersion forces, the adsorption energy will be numerically
high in crevices and pores of the solid, where each adsorbate molecule is
close to an enhanced number of atoms of the solid. Calculations by de Boer
and Custers(29) showed that the maximum enhancement is to be expected
in long and narrow capillaries and in small spherical cavities; and that the
interaction potential has its lowest value for a molecule situated on the top
of a projection. Adsorption should therefore occur preferentially in the
smallest pores of the solid.
  The picture is different, however, if the electrostatic contribution is
considerable and the face of the crystal is heterionic (i.e. if positive and
negative ions alternate there, as in the 100 face of potassium chloride). Within
a narrow pore the alternating positive and negative charges will tend to
compensate each other so that the electrostatic field will be weakened
whereas on a prominence the cancellation effect will be much less~. Thus
the dispersion and electrostatic potentials will be affected in opposite senses
by the prominences and depressions, so that the force field over the surface
as a whole will tend to be smoothed out: the tendency of the adsorbate
molecules to seek out the fine pores and to shun the prominences will be
diminished.

Adsorption Forces-~Conclusion

The general picture which emerges from our consideration of physical
adsorption forces acting between a solid and a molecule of adsorbate gas or
vapour, is somewhat as follows: dispersion forces are always present and,
unless the adsorbate molecule possesses a strong dipole moment, will
represent the major contribution to the total energy of adsorption. Their
dependence on distance is such that the first layer of adsorbed molecules will
be strongly held, and higher layers more weakly so with an energy not much


~ See footnote on opposite page.
