194


all of Jackass Flats. The Paleozoic sedimentary rocks contain
limestone and dolomite units that are excellent water producers
elsewhere; however, these units are too deep in Jackass Flats to
be economic sources of water. The only important water-producing
unit known in the vicinity of the Nuclear Rocket Development
Station is a welded-tuff aquifer, the Tonopah Spring Member of
the Paintbrush Tuff, which receives no significant recharge.
This member contains about 500 feet of highly fractured rock
underlying an area 11 miles long and 3 miles wide in western
Jackass Flats. Permeability of the aquifer is derived mostly
from joints and fractures; however, some permeability may be de-
rived from gas bubbles in the upper part of the unit. Transmis-
sivity, obtained from pumping tests, ranges from 68,000 to 488,000
gallons per day per foot. Volume of the saturated part of the
aquifer is about 3.5 cubic miles, and the average specific yield
probably ranges from 1 to 5 percent. The volume of groundwater
in storage is probably within the range of 37-187 billion gallons.
This large amount of water should be sufficient to supply the
needs of the Nuclear Rocket Development Station for many years.
Water at the Nuclear Rocket Development Station is used for public
supply, construction, test-cell coolant, exhaust cooling, and
thermal shielding during nuclear reactor and engine testing, and
washdown. Present (1967) average consumption of water is 520,000
gallons per day -- all supplied by one well. This supply well
and a standby well have a production capability of 1.6 million
gallons per day -- adequate for present needs. Water in the
welded-tuff aquifer is of the sodium bicarbonate type. Dissolved-
solids content of the water in Jackass Flats is in the general
range 230 milligrams per liter in the western part to 890 milli-
grams per liter in the eastern part. Personal communication from
the author dated March 16, 1973, relates the following: As the
report was written in 1968, the data is not quite up-to-date.
Well J-12 was deepened in August 1968 to 1,000 ft and will now
produce 1,000 gallons per minute with less than 20 ft of drawdown.
Further, when the pump was pulled in 1968, it was found that the
water level was the same as in 1952 when the well was drilled;
therefore, there is no decrease in storage as indicated in the
report. Because the wells have been on standby since the National
Rocket Development Station has been deactivated, a maximum amount
of storage should be anticipated at this time. (Auth)
