137


likely to be affected by radioactivity resulting from the
peaceful uses of nuclear explosives. At the Nevada Test Site
this section has developed a farming facility which is located
approximately two miles downwind from the nuclear crater re-
sulting from the July 1962 detonation of the 100 kiloton thermo-
nuclear device, Project Sedan. This report presents results
of a study to evaluate the uptake of tritium by selected crops
which are important to Nevada's agricultural economy. To deter-
mine the distribution of tritium from this detonation, a four-
station transect was located along the axis from the Sedan crater
to the farm facility. A graph of the 1968 tritium profile in
the soil indicates a maximum concentration at a depth of approxi-
mately 70 cm. This depth is closely correlated with the depth
of the maximum desert rainfall penetration for this area. Prior
to cultivation, the tritium concentration in the soil surface
plow layer of the farm ranged from 11.4 to 26.5 pCi/ml of soil
water or 0.21 to 0.42 pCi/g of dry soil. Comparisons made be-
between radishes (Raphanus sativus), potatoes (Solanum tuberosum),
sweet corn (Zea mays), bush beans (Phaseolus vulgaris), watermelons
(Citrullus vulgaris), and onions (Allium cepa) grown on the Nevada
Test Site farm and similar produce purchased in the local markets
indicated a significant difference between the tritium concentra-
tions at the 99~~~ confidence level. Many of the items purchased
in the local markets were below the minimum sensitivity of the
analytical system used in this study. The levels in the Nevada
Test Site crops ranged from 2.0 to 3.0 pCi/g of dry tissue, or
3.00 to 4.87 pCi/m of tissue water. Although the concentrations
found are of little significance as far as total dose to humans
is concerned, this study has indicated that tritium is available
over considerable periods of time and does not leave the environ-
ment via evaporation as has been suggested.

188 MASON, B. J., K. W. BROWN, H. W. HOP and C. L. MILLER. 1973. Desert
  vegetation uptake of tritium from Project Gasbuggy effluent. In:
  (Nelson, D. J., ed.) Radionuclides in Ecosystems, Proc. Third
  National Symp. on Radioecology (CONF-710501), p. 177-182. (NTIS,
  Springfield, VA 22151)

Tritiated water vapor released to the atmosphere by flaring of
the natural gas taken from the Project Gasbuggy cavity provided
a unique tracer for evaluating atmospheric distribution of the
activity and its subsequent uptake by native desert plants.
Maximum uptake in plants was related to the effects of major
terrain features on wind flow patterns. The maximum concentra-
tion of tritium was found to be in plants collected in the drain-
age wind pattern at 10 miles from the release points, and activity
was from 5-10 times background levels found in vegetation col-
lected elsewhere in the Southwest. (TPO)
