42


Another physiological adaptation involves the ability of some plants
to respond to water vapor in the air as part of their moisture economy
strategy. Species of Atriplex have the ability to absorb water from
vapor through their leaves. Larrea absorbs only small amounts of water
through its leaves, but there is evidence that if creosote bushes are
preconditioned they are able to survive for periods with water from a
309
vapor source only. The contribution of water vapor to the water economy
of desert species when soil moisture is limiting is still unclear, but
with continuing study it may prove to be an important physiological
adaptation to arid conditions.

Several species of plants demonstrate a physiological tolerance to high
concentrations of minerals, especially salts, in the soil. The toler-
ance is often associated with the ability to concentrate both cations
and anions in vegetative parts such as leaves, which can then be
314, 317~,~320
dropped with their concentrated minerals.  The anion and cation contents
of plants are determined by the concentrations in the soils and the
species of plant. Species of Atriplex accumulate up to 10% dry weight of
314
sodium, chlorine, and potassium in their top leaves, Lycium andersonii
317
accumulates lithium, Grayia spinosa concentrates potassium, and Atriplex
320
hymenelytra accumulates cadmium.  Some species do not tolerate high levels
of salts. Larrea fails to grow where the soil C horizon is highly saline
317
and where the A horizon contains over 10 me/100 g exchangeable potassium.

The ability to concentrate certain elements has also contributed to the
toxic quality of certain species of plants on the Nevada Test Site. At
least 30 species have been identified as being poisonous to animals,
76
especially domestic livestock. The majority of species are not poison-
ous in the colloquial sense, but must be consumed in large quantities
to be lethal. Most poisonous plants will be avoided by livestock if
suitable forage species have not been depleted by overgrazing. At least
76
9 species are potentially dangerous as they are lethal in small quantities.

The complex interrelationships between plant physiology and the elemental
composition of desert soils is still poorly known. Causal relationships
