145


Plutonium as an environmental contaminant does not appear to
be a serious problem because of its biological and physical
properties which do not favor high accumulation in the environ-
ment, plants, animals or man. Hasty conclusions should not be
drawn since little can be predicted about future levels of accu-
mulation. (KM)

209 OLAFSON, J. H., J. W. NEEL, C. J. SPIEGL, R. H. WILSON, F. G. LOWMEN
and K. H. LARSON. 1953. Preliminary study of off-site, air-
borne radioactive materials, Nevada proving grounds. I. Fallout
originating from Snapper 6, 7, and 8 at distances of ten to fifty
miles from ground zero. USAEC Report UCLA-243, 123 p. (NTIS,
Springfield, VA 22151)

The operations of the intermediate zone fall-out program (10 to
50 miles) conducted in connection with Operation Snapper 6, 7,
and 8 during May and June 1952 are reviewed. The maximum con-
centrations of airborne fission products in this area as deter-
mined by means of Hi-Volume samplers were 1.0 to 2.7 ~c/m3.
Particle size distribution of the airborne material was deter-
mined by modified Casella Cascade impactors. Fall-out patterns
were determined by gummed papers. Decay data are presented on
a number of selected typical samples from each detonation. (WDM)

210 PAGLIA, D. E. 1968. Hematopathologic surveys of kangaroo rats
(Dipodomys microps) populating plutonium contaminated regions
of the Nevada Test Site. Health Physics 15:493-498.

Hematologic characteristics were assessed in 765 kangaroo rats
(Dipodomys microps) indigenous to five Pu-239 contaminated
regions and two control areas within the Nevada Test Site. Bone
and lung specimens, gastrointestinal contents, and environmental
air and soil samples from all but one of these populations were
assayed for Pu-239 content. Gross pathologic changes appeared
minimal and nonspecific. Mean platelet levels in two exposed
groups were slightly lower than control values. One of these
groups, for which Pu-239 data were unavailable, also exhibited
lower mean levels of peripheral lymphocytes. While significant
statistically, all blood-cell depressions were physiologically
inconsequential. Statistical evaluations disclosed no correla-
tion between available Pu-239 burdens and any measured biologi-
cal parameter. Reported values may serve additionally as use-
ful baseline data in the event of resumption of atmospheric
nuclear weapons testing or accidental venting of underground
detonations. (Auth)

211 PARAN, T. P. 1966. A new fur mite, Lavoimyobia hughesi n.g.,
n. sp. (Acarina: Myobiidae) from a North American rodent.
J. Med. Entomol. 3:172-178.

A description is given of a myobiid, Lavoimyobia hughesi n.g.,
