Vine and others (1981) speculated that the formation of sulfate
radiocolloids might explain the behavior of europium and cerium
in these experiments. In general, cesium and strontium have
higher Rd values in solutions with lower pH and ionic
strength, whereas the behavior of barium depends both on
solution composition and sample mineralogy.

Q.1.3 Effect of Particle Size

  The data in Table Q-3 demonstrate the effect of particle
size on Rd values for several size fractions of nonzeoli-
tized tuffs (G1-2363, G1-1893) and zeolitized tuffs (G1-2289
and YM-38). Data in Table Q-1 illustrate the combined effects
of solution:solid ratio and particle size on the Rd values
for sample YM-38. The available data (Wolfsberg and others,
1982a) suggest that for zeolitized tuffs particle size has no
systematic effect on Rd values. For nonzeolitized samples,
sorption ratio for the <38 ~m size fraction are 2 to 4 times
higher than those of the larger sizes. X-ray diffraction
studies of these samples showed very little difference in the
mineralogy of the different size fractions. At present, no
satisfactory explanation for the contrasting behavior of the
zeolitized and nonzeolitized tuffs is available.

Q.1.4 Effect of Mineralogy on Rd Values

  Ranges of Rd for 12 radionuclides and 6 chemical homo-
logs are summarized for the three dominant tuff lithologies in
Table 2-16. Rd values for several other lithologies are
presented in Table Q-4. These data should be used with cau-
tion for two reasons: 1) they are based on few measurements
and 2) some of the data represent early sorption studies and
may be superseded by more recent unpublished determinations.

Q.1.5 Effect of Temperature

  The data in Table Q-5 illustrate the effect of tempera-
ture on sorption and desorption ratios. Rd values at 70~C
for strontium, barium, cerium, europium, and cesium are gener-
ally 2-5 times higher than values at 22~C. Americium has
higher sorption ratios at lower temperatures for the majority
of its experiments.

Q.1.6 Effect of Redox Potential

  Ranges of Rd values in oxidizing and reducing atmo-
spheres can be compared in Tables Q-5, 2-16 and 2-17. Gener-
ally, Rd values for technetium, plutonium, and neptunium are
higher in the controlled atmosphere (nitrogen atmosphere,
(O2) ~~ 0.2 ppm, (CO2) ~~ 20 ppm) than under ambient atmo-
spheric conditions (Wolfsberg and others, 1981, 1982a). Rd
values for uranium for zeolitized tuff are higher in the con-
trolled atmosphere. Barium, cesium, and europium sorption
ratios are higher under atmospheric conditions.
-300-
