traceable to the NBS) just prior to the test series. Calibration data for the load cell, axial
LVDT and ring LVDT's are listed in Table D-1 (Appendix D, Table 1).

  Calibrations of the experimental methods and the entire instrumentation setup were
obtained prior to and following the experiments by testing a 6061-T651 aluminum cylinder
(266.7 by 533.4 mm) of known mechanical properties (Young's modulus, E, of 69.7 GPa
and a Poisson's ratio, ~, of .33). The aluminum calibration test data are listed in Table
D-2 and plotted in Figure D-1. The limited amount of lateral strain data in the pretest
series calibration (Table D-2) is due to a failure in the computer data-collection system,
resulting in the acquisition of lateral and axial strain data on different backup time-based
plotters.
  
  The test samples were water saturated by the method described in Appendix C. Each
saturated sample weighed approximately 580 N; consequently, they were carefully lifted
out of the saturation tank and carried over to the test apparatus with an overhead crane.
Each sample was then positioned between steel end pieces (caps), the sample assembly
placed between the loading ram and the load cell, the axial LVDT and ring gages mounted,
and the mechanical experiment begun.

Experimental Results

  Summaries of the mechanical property results are given in Table 6. The ranges of
Young's moduli, Poisson's ratios, unconfined strengths and axial strains at failure are 10.9
to 21.5 GPa, 0.13 to 0.21, 10.3 to 27.8 MPa and .0010 to .0015, respectively.

  The differential stress-axial strain curves are presented in Figure D-2. The general
shapes of the stress-strain curves are very similar to previously reported unconfined test
results on samples of welded, nonlithophysal Topopah Spring Tuff (Price, Nimick and
Zirzow, 1982; Price, Spence and Jones, 1984) and on samples of other Yucca Mountain
silicic tuffs (Price, Jones and Nimick, 1982; Price and Nimick, 1982; Price and Jones,
1982). In general, the curves exhibit an initial concave-upward portion, a linear region,
a concave-downward portion and a downward break. These curve characteristics are
interpreted to reflect crack closure and/or pore collapse, elastic deformation, material
yield and macroscopic failure of the test specimen, respectively. Stress-strain results from
all of the lithophysal samples (this report) and higher porosity nonlithophysal samples
(earlier reports listed above) tend to reflect macroscopic sample failure by a gradual
decrease in the slope of the stress-strain curve beginning at approximately 75-90 percent
of ultimate stress, and then strain soften sharply following the ultimate stress. This is in


24
