10


regions to homogenize the sodium temperature and shield the reactor
structure from neutrons, and (3) a nose piece and handling socket to
facilitate assembly insertion/removal. The distance between two of the
flat sides of the hexagonal assembly is ~13.8 cm (5.4 in.).

   The core/axial blanket assembly contains 271 elements, each with a
diameter about the size of a pencil. The oxide pellets are contained in
stainless steel 316 cladding and have a small amount of sodium sealed
inside the element to facilitate heat transfer through the gap between
the pellet and the cladding. The elements have a stainless steel wire
wrapped around them in a spiral fashion to separate them from each other
and provide the space for the coolant to flow. Cross sections of simulated
LMFBR fuel assemblies are shown in Fig. 2. The LMFBR assembly is encased
in a stainless steel fuel channel similar to that in a BWR assembly. The
total assembly weight is ~260 kg (570 lb), of which ~50% is the fuel
material and 50% the stainless steel fuel-assembly structure.

   The radial blanket assembly, which has the same overall size as the
core/axial blanket assembly, contains 91 elements. The radial blanket
elements, which are also wire-wrapped, stainless-steel-clad, and sodium-
bonded, are almost twice the diameter of the core/axial blanket elements.
The radial blanket assembly also has a stainless steel fuel channel. The
assembly weighs ~300 kg (660 lb), of which ~66% is fuel material. The low
power-generation rate allows the larger fuel element diameters, which
results in a greater amount of uranium in the assembly and, consequently,
a somewhat higher plutonium breeding rate.

          3. DESCRIPTION OF SPENT FUEL AND WASTE PRODUCTS

                             3.1 Spent Fuel

   The physical description of the spent fuel assemblies for each of the
reactors is the same as that given in Sect. 2 for the fresh fuel. With
one exception, all of the material that is present in the fresh fuel or
generated during irradiation is contained in the spent fuel assembly. The
exception is that only 10% of the tritium produced within the LMFBR fuel
is assumed to be in the spent fuel. The remainder diffuses through the
