  Each item and activity during site characterization is assigned a level
of quality assurance, which determines what requirements for control and doc-
umentation need to be followed. The level of quality assurance is consistent
with the relative importance of the item and activity to public health and
safety.

5.4 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIOECONOMIC IMPACTS

  In conducting the site-characterization program, care will be taken to
minimize adverse environmental and socioeconomic impacts. As reported in the
environmental assessment for the Yucca Mountain site, no significant adverse
impacts are expected to result from site characterization. Nonetheless, the
DOE will monitor site-characterization activities that might have significant
environmental and socioeconomic impacts and, to the extent practicable, will
implement mitigation measures if necessary. Plans to monitor and mitigate
those impacts will be developed in consultation with the State of Nevada
before starting the particular site-characterization activities.

5.5 DECOMMISSIONING

  If Yucca Mountain is found to be unsuitable as a repository, the
exploratory-shaft facility will be decommissioned. If no alternative use for
the exploratory-shaft facility is identified by the responsible State and
Federal agencies, the decommissioning of the surface and underground facil-
ities will begin as soon as possible. The surface facilities will be removed,
and the land will be stabilized and rehabilitated. Equipment will be removed
from the shaft stations, underground drifts, and test rooms. The shaft liners 
will be left in place. The underground excavations and shafts will be back-
filled with the rock removed during excavation.

  Trenches will be backfilled with the material that was originally
excavated, and drillholes will be sealed with a ground-matching grout of a 
density that corresponds to that of the surrounding rock.

  Since no radioactive materials will be used at the site during site char-
acterization, no decontamination will be required after site characterization.
The radioactive materials in the geophysical tools used to investigate the
movement of ground water during exploratory drilling are fully contained and
retrievable; they are routinely used in geologic investigations and do not
require any decontamination.
-90-
