1. INTRODUCTION

  The Yucca Mountain site is one of three candidate sites for the first
geologic repository for radioactive waste.* On May 28, 1986, it was approved
by the President for detailed study in a program of site characterization,
which will be conducted by the Department of Energy (DOE). The purpose of
this program is to obtain the information necessary to select a site for the
repository and to obtain from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)
authorization to construct a repository. This necessary information de-
scribes the geologic, geoengineering, hydrologic, geochemical, climatological,
and meteorological conditions at the site.

  The DOE's plans for conducting the site-characterization program at the
Yucca Mountain site are described in the consultation draft of the site
characterization plan (SCP/CD); brief summaries of important topics covered in
the SCP/CD are presented in this overview.

1.1 THE SITING AND THE LICENSING OF A REPOSITORY

  The process of siting a repository, as specified by the Nuclear Waste
Policy Act of 1982 (the Act), consists of several steps.** For the first
repository, several of the steps have been completed, the most recent being
the following:

1. The Secretary of Energy has nominated five sites as suitable for
   characterization and has issued environmental assessments to accom-
   pany each nomination.

2. The Secretary has recommended three of the nominated sites for char-
   acterization as candidate sites for the first repository, and the
   President has approved the recommendation. The three sites are the
   Yucca Mountain site in tuff in the State of Nevada, the Deaf Smith
   County site in salt in the State of Texas, and the Hanford site in
   basalt in the State of Washington.

3. The Secretary has made the preliminary determination that the
   recommended candidate sites are suitable for development as repos-
   itories.
  *The radioactive waste emplaced in the repository will consist of spent
fuel from commercial nuclear reactors, high-level waste from defense activ-
ities, and a small quantity of commercial high-level waste from the West
Valley Demonstration Project. For convenience, the term "radioactive waste"
or simply "waste" is often used in this overview to mean spent nuclear fuel or
high-level waste.

  **The process specified by the Act may be changed by legislation pending
before the Congress.
-1-
