4.2 THE ISSUES HIERARCHY AND THE ISSUE-RESOLUTION STRATEGY

  To ensure that all the required information will be available when
needed, the DOE has developed two organizing principles for site character-
ization--the issues hierarchy and a general strategy for issue resolution.
This section briefly discusses these principles; a more detailed discussion is
given in Section 8.1 of the SCP/CD. Section 4.3 explains how they have been
applied to planning site characterization at Yucca Mountain.

4.2.1 The issues hierarchy

  The issues hierarchy is a three-tiered framework that lays out what must
be known before a site can be selected and licensed. The highest tier con-
sists of four "key issues," which are derived from the system guidelines in
the DOE siting guidelines (see Appendix A); since the system guidelines are
based on the EPA and NRC regulations in 40 CFR Part 191* and 10 CFR Part 60,
respectively, the key issues embody the principal requirements of the regula-
tions governing repositories.

  There are four key issues. The first addresses the postclosure per-
formance of the disposal system--that is, the general objectives discussed in
Section 4.1. The second key issue addresses the safety of repository opera-
tions before closure. The third key issue addresses environmental and socio-
economic concerns. It is not considered in the SCP; plans for its resolution
will be presented in other planning documents, with full opportunity at
several stages for review and comment by interested parties. The fourth key
issue addresses the ease and cost of repository construction, operation,
closure, and decommissioning.

  Each key issue is followed, in the second tier, by a group of issues
related to performance and design. The performance issues generally address
specific questions about compliance with regulatory requirements. They iden-
tify the information on site characteristics and design that is needed to
assess the performance of the disposal system. The design issues address the
information needed for the design of the repository, seals, and the waste
package in the area defined by the key issue. In constructing each group of
  *The U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit has vacated and remanded
to the EPA for further proceedings the environmental standards for the dis-
posal of spent fuel, high-level waste, and transuranic waste (Subpart B of 40
CFR Part 191). Some of the plans described in the consultation draft of the
SCP were specifically designed to furnish data needed for demonstrating com-
pliance with those standards as promulgated by the EPA in 1985. The basic
information needed to demonstrate compliance with any disposal standards even-
tually promulgated by the EPA is expected to remain substantially the same,
and therefore the approach to testing set forth in the SCP is expected to
remain substantially the same. Nevertheless, any changes that may be made by
the EPA to its standards will be evaluated by the DOE to ensure that the
planned testing program will be adequate.
-46-
