96 STAT. 2222 PUBLIC LAW 97-425-~JAN. 7, 1983


                 (3) The Secretary shall also grant to each State and unit of general
               local government in which a site for a repository is approved under
               section 112(c) an amount each fiscal year equal to the amount such
               State and unit of general local government, respectively, would
               receive were they authorized to tax site characterization activities at
               such site, and the development and operation of such repository, as
               such State and unit of general local government tax the other real
               property and industrial activities occurring within such State and
               unit of general local government. Such grants shall continue until
               such time as all such activities, development, and operation are
               terminated at such site.
Grants,          (4)(A) A State may not receive any grant under paragraph (1) after
limitations.   the expiration of the 1-year period following-~
    
               (i) the date on which the Secretary notifies the Governor and
               legislature of the State involved of the termination of site
               characterization activities at the candidate site involved in such
               State;
               (ii) the date on which the site in such State is disapproved
               under section 115; or
               (iii) the date on which the Commission disapproves an applica-
               tion for a construction authorization for a repository at such
               site;
                
               whichever occurs first, unless there is another candidate site in the
               State approved under section 112(c) with respect to which the
               actions described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) have not been taken.
                 (B) A State may not receive any further assistance under para-
               graph (2) with respect to a site if repository construction activities at
               such site are terminated by the Secretary or if such activities are
               permanently enjoined by any court.
Funding          (C) At the end of the 2-year period beginning on the effective date
limitations.   of any license to receive and possess for a repository in a State, no
               Federal funds shall be made available to such State under para-
               graph (1) or (2), except for-~
     
               (i) such funds as may be necessary to support State activities
               related to any other repository located in, or proposed to be
               located in, such State, and for which a license to receive and
               possess has not been in effect for more than 1 year; and
               (ii) such funds as may be necessary to support State activities
               pursuant to agreements or contracts for impact assistance en-
               tered into, under paragraph (2), by such State with the Secre-
               tary during such 2-year period.
                 (5) Financial assistance authorized in this subsection shall be
               made out of amounts held in the Nuclear Waste Fund established in
Post, p. 2257. section 302.
                 (d) ADDITIONAL NOTIFICATION AND CONSULTATION.-~Whenever the
               Secretary is required under any provision of this Act to notify or
               consult with the governing body of an affected Indian tribe where a
               site is located, the Secretary shall also notify or consult with, as the
               case may be, the Governor of the State in which such reservation is
               located.

           CONSULTATION WITH STATES AND AFFECTED INDIAN TRIBES

42 USC 10137.   SEC. 117. (a) PROVISION OF INFORMATION.-~(1) The Secretary, the
              Commission, and other agencies involved in the construction, oper-
              ation, or regulation of any aspect of a repository in a State shall
              provide to the Governor and legislature of such State, and to the

