Purpose, Applicability, and Use of This Standard Format

The purpose of this Standard Format is to suggest the types of information
to be provided in the SCP in accordance with 10 CFR Part 60 and to establish a
uniform format for presenting the information. Use of this format will help
ensure the completeness of the information provided, will assist the NRC staff
and others in locating the information, and will aid in shortening the time
needed for the review process. This Standard Format represents a format that
is acceptable to the NRC staff. However, conformance with the Standard Format
is not required.  SCPs with differing formats will be acceptable if they
provide an adequate presentation of the information required by 10 CFR Part 60.

Any information collection requirements mentioned in this regulatory
guide are exempt from the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3518(c)(1)).

The Standard Format is divided into two parts:

1. Part A provides guidance on the types of information needed to describe
the site and the conceptual design (including the waste form and waste package
and its emplacement environment) of a repository appropriate to the site. There
is no threshold amount of data to be accumulated during the preliminary site
exploration activities required prior to the submittal of an SCP. Rather, Part
A provides guidance on how to submit information that is currently available.

2. Part B provides guidance on the presentation of the site characteriza-
tion program, on the identification of unresolved issues, and on the plans to
resolve these issues during site characterization.

In its review of Part B, the NRC will look for answers to the following
questions:

a. Have the important information needs and unresolved issues been
   identified?

b. Does the SCP specifically address these information needs and present
   program plans to obtain the needed information?

c. Are the methods of testing and analysis proposed for the planned site
   characterization program appropriate?

d. Have alternative methods of testing and analysis been identified and 
   evaluated, and has an adequate basis been provided for the selection
   of the methods to be used?

e. Will the data to be collected and the reliability of the collection
   methods and analyses be of adequate quality to support a future
   construction authorization application?

f. Have the testing plans been based on the performance requirements for
   the repository system and its components, and are the tests adequate
   to enable evaluation of whether or not the repository system and its 
   components will satisfy the regulatory performance requirements?
vii
