                          NNWSI PROJECT QA PLAN          N-QA-040    
							 1/87


                              SECTION VIII
         IDENTIFICATION AND CONTROL OF ITEMS, SAMPLES AND DATA

                              INTRODUCTION

   This section provides the requirements for the identification and control
of items, samples and data and consists of three separate parts. The
requirements for items are stated in part A; in part B for samples; and, part C
for data resulting from scientific investigations. Part A applies to
activities related to the engineered items and does not apply to scientific
investigations. Parts B and C apply to scientific investigation activities and
do not apply to engineered items.

              PART A - IDENTIFICATION AND CONTROL OF ITEMS

                           1.0 IDENTIFICATION

   Items shall be identified to assure that only correct and accepted items
are used or installed. The identification shall be verified prior to
installation or use. Identification shall be maintained either on the item,
their containers, or in documents traceable to the item from receipt until
installed.

                               1.1 GENERAL

   Items of production (batch, lot, component, part) shall be identified from
the initial receipt and fabrication of the items up to and including
installation and use. This identification shall relate an item to an
applicable design or other pertinent specifying document.

1.1.1 Physical identification shall be used to the maximum extent possible.
Where physical identification on the item is either impracticable or
insufficient, physical separation, procedural control, or other appropriate
means shall be employed.

1.1.2 Identification markings, when used, shall be applied using materials and
methods which provide a clear and legible identification and do not
detrimentally affect the function or service life of the item. Markings shall
be transferred to each part of an identified item when subdivided and shall not
be obliterated or hidden by surface treatment or coatings unless other means of
identification are substituted.

1.1.3 When specified by codes, standards or specification that include
specific identification or traceability requirements (such as identification or
traceability of the item to applicable specification and grade of material;
heat, batch, lot, part or serial number; or specified inspection, test or other
records) the program shall be designed to provide such identification and
traceability control.


~EV. NO.
0


ISSUED
5/19/88


SECTION TITLE
IDENTIFICATION & CONTROL OF ITEMS


PAGE NO.
VIII-1
