NNWSI PROJECT QA PLAN  N-QA-040
                       1/87
SECTION XV

CONTROL OF NONCONFORMING ITEMS

1.0 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

  Measures shall be established to control items that do not conform to
requirements to prevent their inadvertent installation or use. These measures
shall include documented procedures for identification, documentation,
evaluation, segregation (when practical), disposition, and notification to
affected organizations. All personnel involved in Nevada Nuclear Waste Storage
Investigations (NNWSI) Project activities are responsible for reporting
nonconformances in accordance with their established nonconformance control 
procedures. These procedures shall be consistent with the minimum requirements
listed below.

1.1 IDENTIFICATION

1.1.1 METHOD OF IDENTIFICATION

  Identification of nonconforming items shall be made by marking, tagging,
or other methods that shall not adversely affect the end use of the item. The
identification shall be legible, easily recognizable, and shall contain the
nonconformance report number. The nonconformance report number shall be a
sequential number preceded by an organizational acronym (e.g, LLNL-1, USGS-6,
etc). If tags are used, they shall be securely attached to avoid loss during
handling.

1.1.2 EXCEPTIONS

  If identification of each nonconforming item is not practical, the
container, package, or segregated storage area, as appropriate, shall be
identified.

1.1.3 CONDITIONAL RELEASE

  Work on the nonconforming item shall be stopped until completion of the
action specified in the Nonconformance Report (NCR) disposition. If only a
specific portion of the item is in nonconformance, then that specific area
shall be identified and work may proceed on the remaining areas. If work on a
nonconforming item must be continued (conditional release) prior to
implementation of the disposition, the Waste Management Project Office (WMPO)
shall approve such continuance. Requests for conditional releases on
nonconforming items shall include documented justification that the following
conditions are met:

o The nonconforming item can be removed or corrected at a later date
  without damage to, or contamination of the associated permanent
  facility equipment or structures.
REV. NO.      ISSUED            SECTION TITLE                   PAGE NO.
0                               CONTROL OF NONCONFORMING ITEMS   XV-1
              ~/~~/~~
