OGR/B-2
D-13
retrieval may be necessary. This period of prototypical equipment development
could continue, if needed, until the time the license to receive and possess
is granted by the NRC.

  The purpose of this prototypical equipment development program shall be
to establish confidence in the overall retrieval capability under geotechnical
conditions which approximate those identified in and during the design of the
retrieval method. This does not mean that the combined, worst-case effects of
all geotechnical conditions need to be simulated in order to prove
retrievability. However, if significant questions remain unanswered after the
proof-of-principle demonstration, prototypical equipment shall be constructed
to operate under geotechnical conditions which simulate the pertinent
retrieval environment necessary to resolve major uncertainties.

  The development, construction, and demonstration of prototypical 
equipment need not necessarily occur underground at the site of the proposed
repository. It will be necessary, however, to choose a location(s) which
simulate(s) geotechnical conditions, stresses, and opening geometries as may
reasonably be expected to exist at the proposed repository location. It is
not necessary to find a surrogate location(s) for prototypical development
which identically matches the geotechnical conditions of the repository - as
long as the simulated retrieval conditions reasonably approximate those
affecting the question of retrieval.

  The documentation, data, analyses, and results obtained from the
development and demonstration of prototypical retrieval equipment shall be
provided to the Commission in accordance with 10 CFR Part 60.

  The waste configuration (package, container, canister, etc.) used in the
retrieval demonstration shall be of a size and weight approximating that
actually planned for the disposal of waste at the repository. Any potential
change in the shape, orientation, or other physical condition of the waste
package which may credibly have an impact on retrieval shall be simulated
during the prototypical equipment demonstration.

  The use of radioactive material is not required in either the
proof-of-principle demonstration or the prototypical development of retrieval
equipment. Furthermore, proof-of-principle demonstration(s) need not be
conducted with all radiation-safety measures in place. Prototypical equipment
shall incorporate radiation-safety equipment, as necessary, to test the
mechanical systems.
Revision 3
