Proc~dure No  3.2    Rev 0   ~ssued 8/24/87   Page 4 of 7
     6.7  Comments shall be legible, concise and specific in nature. Document
          references should be used whenever appropriate. Suggested wording
          or clarifications should be made, if possible.

     6.8  Comments may be documented by any of the following methods:

          6.8.1 The comments can be noted on the Technical Review Comment and
                Resolution Sheet (Appendix A).

          6.8.2 Comments sheets, with adequate instructions, supplied by the
                originator of the document, such as, the Project Office or a
                contractor.

          6.8.3 Any other documented and approved method, for example, review
                of documents controlled by the Program Baseline Procedures
                Notebook-OGR/B-1 (Reference 3.10).

     6.9  All comments, generated in accordance with Section 6.8.1, shall be
          forwarded to the Branch Chief, or his designee, who will review the
          comments for clarity and appropriateness. The commenter shall be
          contacted to clarify and comments.

     6.10 The Branch Chief, with concurrence of the Division Director, shall
          transmit the accummulated comments with a cover letter to the
          originator of the document for comment resolution.

     6.11 The originator is required to address each comment. Any comment
          which is not totally incorporated into the technical document shall
          be reviewed with the Branch Chief and commenter. Disputes
          concerning interpretation shall be elevated to the next higher level
          of management until resolution is obtained.

     6.12 When the comments have been incorporated or otherwise resolved, the
          technical document shall be resubmitted to the Branch Chief for
          verification.

     6.13 Changes to documents that originally received a technical review
          shall undergo another review when submitted to HQ-OGR.

     6.14 A Technical Review Check List (Appendix B) shall be initiated by the
          Branch Chief to document the technical review process.

7.0  Records

     7.1  Technical Review records are lifetime records and as such will be
          maintained in accordance with reference 3.6.

          7.1.1 As a minimum, the following records shall be maintained:
