OGR/B-5
~ Before subsurface excavation

~ Post subsurface excavation (i.e., reflecting rock stress as a result
  of rock excavation)

~ Post waste emplacement.

The objective of these investigations will be the measurement of those
geologic/geotechnical properties necessary to model the repository design.

8.3.2.3 Coupled Interaction Investigations

Thermal-hydrological-mechanical-geochemical interaction investigations
will be described in this section.

The test plans will either provide for direct testing of the coupled
behavior or demonstrate that tests of the coupled behavior is unnecessary.
The need for coupled tests will be based on site-specific conditions. The
following guidance will be useful in deciding when direct testing of coupled
behavior may not be required:

1. The component of the natural system (far-field geology) for which
   performance credit is taken is characterized adequately for
   evaluation of overall repository performance.

2. In evaluating overall MGDS performance, no credit is taken for the
   near-field host rock that cannot be characterized adequately.

3. Components of the engineered system such as the waste package are
   designed with adequate conservatism with respect to the coupled
   thermal conditions that will be encountered. Examples of
   conservatism in design include limiting the host rock thermal loading
   and thickening container walls.

4. The tests that support the design of the engineered system are
   carried out under a much wider range of conditions than the
   anticipated repository conditions. This means that the design of the
   tests takes into account conditions above and beyond the full range
   of coupled thermal behavior that is expected to be encountered.

The test plans will specify the scale and the duration of the planned
tests and will describe how this scale and duration will be adequate to assess
compliance with 10 CFR Part 60.

8.3.2.4 Design Optimization Investigations

The design optimization investigations that require site characterization
data will be described. Typical topics which may be discussed include the
refinement of design data needed to resolve design alternatives, decisions,
construction feasibility issues, and design performance verification for such
activities as rock excavation and mining techniques, waste package
emplacement, and retrieval issues.
-69-  Revision 1
