79
(2) Retardation. The retardation factor, R, is the ratio of the
velocity of the moving solution to that of the particles, and is defined
as
where Kd is the distribution coefficient (g/l), Pb is the bulk density of
the rock column, and ~ is the column porosity. R > 1 means that particles
lag behind the mobilizing solution. Such a lag reflects sorption of clay
particles onto the substrate. Wahlig (1980) found the R for kaolinite
movement through columns of crushed basalt varied between 1.0 to 11.0.
Neretnieks (1978) found that R = 1.0 for montmorillonite transport through
columns of crushed granite, which indicated no sorption of clay particles.
The effluent had essentially the same concentration as feed suspension.

These retardation values can be compared to values due to sorption
of many aqueous radionuclides on stationary substrates with Kd ranges of
between 1 x 102 to 1 x 106. Therefore, radionuclides in experimental
systems with high clay concentrations would be expected to move more
readily than radionuclides in systems without clay particles.

(3) Occurrence of Particulates in Natural Groundwater Systems. The
literature provides very little information on the type and concentrations
of colloid-size particles suspended in deep groundwaters. Such information
could indicate the far-field conditions of a potential repository. Two
studies, however, were found. In the first, Neretnieks (1978) measured
groundwater particle concentrations in a 500 m borehole in a granite
aquifer associated with the Swedish nuclear disposal program. The con-
centration was found by light-scattering techniques to be 0.6 ppb. The
largest particle measured was 0.6 ~m. No information is available on their
composition.

In the second study, Barnes (1976) collected 39 natural groundwater
samples from deep wells. Using a solvent extraction method, he compared
aluminum concentrations with samples that had been filtered through 0.1 ~m
filters and then acidified. Barnes found that the filtered acidified samples
produced consistently higher concentrations, with an average difference
between the two methods of 3.0 ppb. This difference presumably results from
the difference between dissolved Al measured in the extraction method and
particulate or colloidal Al that passed through the 0.1 ~m filter and was
then dissolved by acidification. The 3.0 ppb difference, therefore, is the
concentration of particulate aluminum less than 0.1 ~m in size. The data of
both Neretnieks and Barnes suggest that particulate concentrations in unper-
turbed groundwater may be exceedingly low, ~ 1 ppb.
