                                    332


6 (cont.)

       (i)  Backfill placed in the underground facility shall perform its
       functions assuming anticipated changes in the geologic setting.

       (ii)  Backfill placed in the underground facility shall serve the
       following functions:

       (A)  It shall provide a barrier to groundwater movement into and
       from the underground facility.

       (B)  It shall reduce creep deformation of the host rock that may
       adversely affect (1) waste package performance or (2) the local
       hydrological system.

       (C)  It shall reduce and control groundwater movement within the
       underground facility.

       (D)  It shall retard radionuclide migration.

       (iii)  Backfill placed in the underground facility shall be
       selected to allow for adequate placement and compaction in under-
       ground openings.

                                     [~60.132, Additional design require-
                                     ments for the underground facility,
                                     (i),(1),(2),(3)]

7.     (ii)  Control of releases.

       (A)  For HLW, the engineered system shall be designed so that, after
       the first 1,000 years following permanent closure, the annual
       release rate of any radionuclide from the engineered system into the
       geologic setting, assuming anticipated processes and events, is at
       most one part in 100,000 of the maximum amount of that radionuclide
       calculated to be present in the underground facility (assuming no
       release from the underground facility) at any time after 1,000 years
       following permanent closure.  The requirement does not apply to less
       than 0.1% of the total annual curie release as prescribed by this
       paragraph.

       (B)  For TRU waste, the engineered system shall be designed so
       that following permanent closure the annual release rate of any
       radionuclide from the underground facility into the geologic setting,
       assuming anticipated processes and events, is at most one part in
       100,000 of the maximum amount calculated to be presented in the
       underground facility (assuming no release from the underground
       facility) at any time following permanent closure.  This requirement


