2.3.8	PEER REVIEW
	
	To assist in its review and evaluation of SCPs, OGR has entered into an
agreement with Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) to obtain independent
technical review from a number of experts in waste management.  The fields of 
expertise represented in this group will include geology, hydrology,
geochemistry, rock mechanics, climatology, geoengineering, and performance
assessment.  In addition to their review function, these individuals will
assist OGR in the resolution of technical questions that may arise during the
preparation of the SCPs.


2.3.9  SCP OVERVIEW COMMITTEE

	The SCP Overview Committee consists of representatives from Headquarters
and from Weston.  Headquarters members will include representatives from the
Engineering and Geotechnology Division, the Licensing and Regulatory Division,
the Repository Coordination Division, and the Siting Division of OGR as well
as from EH, GC and CP (see Figure 4).  The Committee's purpose is to provide
the forum for Headquarters coordination and interaction on matters related to
the SCP; to provide program guidance on policy, legal, environmental, and
procedural issues as they arise; to ensure the consistency and compatibility
of the SCP with related program documents; and to ensure expeditious review
and concurrence on the SCP.

	The mission of the SCP Overview Committee will be separate from that of
the SCP Coordinating Group (see Section 4.2), although there will  be some
overlapping membership between the groups in order to ensure the most 
efficient exchange of information and resolution of issues.  The Overview
Committee will attempt to meet on a monthly basis or as required until the
SCPs are issued.  The Overview Committee will be chaired by the SCPCG chairman
designated by the Technology Branch Chief.

2.4	MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS

	Headquarters will develop and maintain a filing system that will include
the SCP Review File and the Administrative Record.  The Review File will
contain documentation from the developmental stages of the SCP, before
issuance.  The Administrative Record will include the SCP, associated
supporting documents, the guidance that directed the SCP to its completion and 
documents related to review and comment on the SCP by State and Federal
agencies, Indian Tribes and the public.

2.4.1 SCP REVIEW FILES

	The SCP Review Files will be maintained at Headquarters and at each
Project Office or its designee.  These files document the SCP-preparation
process as well as establish a basis for quality assurance.  Examples of the
type of materials that the SCP review files may include are (1) any
review-guidance materials prepared for onsite reviews;  (2) any record of
comments from the onsite reviews; (3) the comment-disposition sheets (Figure
3) from Chapter and assembled SCP reviews at Headquarters, especially records
of concurrence-level comments and records of comment resolutions; (4) any


				-20-
