6.3.7  Design of Surface Facilities

     This section will describe tests to confirm properties of surface
materials and foundation-soil or rock considered in the design of structural
foundations for surface facilities, including known or inferred foundation
problems.  It will also discuss or reference the sources of water for
construction and operation of the proposed facilities.

6.3.8  Repository System Component Performance Requirements

     [This section will reference a discussion of repository system component
performance requirements presented in Section 8.3.5.]

     Preliminary numerical values for the performance goals design criteria
for the repository systems will be provided to assure that the repository as a
whole meets the overall regulatory requirements.  As the design evolves, these
goals will be subdivided to the component level and will evolve into system
and component requirements.

     Early assignment of numerical goals for systems and components cannot be
accomplished with a high degree of accuracy.

     The general nature of the design and performance assessment will
establish what site data need to be obtained.  The specific analytic tools
used in the design process and performance assessment will establish the
accuracy requirements on the data collection and analysis systems.  Tentative
values for acceptable ranges of site properties can be established using an
assumed design.  If the measured site falls within the initially assumed
values only modest design changes are required.  If the measured site values
fall outside the initially assumed values more extensive design changes may be
required to continue to meet the overall performance requirements.

6.4  SUMMARY OF DESIGN ISSUES AND DATA NEEDS

     This section will provide a summary of design issues and related data
needs, and will be cross-referenced to appropriate sections of Chapter 6.3 and
Chapter 8.

REFERENCES

     A list of all pertinent references will be provided.


SCP 30                 -45-             02/13/85


