8.3.5.5  Analytical Techniques Requiring Significant Development

     This section will present, in the text and in a matrix chart, a
description of those analytical techniques that are expected to be important
for evaluating the performance of the site but that still require significant
additional developmental work at the time the SCP is prepared.  Site-specific
and generic models and computer codes will be included.  The programs
formulated for undertaking the developmental work during site characterization
will be described, including plans for documentation, verification, and
validation of models and codes.

     This section will specifically discuss plans for the development of the
following:

     ~   Approach to selection and characterization of scenarios for long-term
         release from system and subsystems

     ~   Model development and the control and certification of computer
         codes.  This section will discuss the certification process, using
         the definitions in NUREG-0856, including the numerical model, code
         documentation, verification, benchmarking, and validation.  The
         section will categorize these plans according to the two major
         applications of performance assessment (performance objectives and
         EPA standards)

     ~   Approach to uncertainty analyses.  This section will explain the
         plans for using uncertainty analyses to understand basic phenomena,
         resolve uncertainties in data (e.g., by krieging) resolve
         uncertainties in model parameters, and resolve uncertainties in
         models.

     ~   Approach to sensitivity analyses.  This section will describe the
         plans for sensitivity analyses.  The objectives of these analyses are
         to assign priorities to the data needs and to reduce the needs for 
         data, models, and tests.  The analyses will identify critical
         parameters and boundary conditions.  The section will discuss the
         techniques to be used (e.g., Latin hypercube)

     ~   Approach to utilizing professional judgment.  This section will
         explain the plans for using professional judgment in performance
         assessment

     ~   Approach to construction and use of complementary cummulative
         distribution functions (CCDFs).  This section will explain how the
         performance assessment task expects to construct complementary
         cumulative distribution functions (CCDFs).

8.4  PLANNED SITE PREPARATION ACTIVITIES

     Plans for surface and subsurface excavations and construction related to
site characterization will be presented in this section.


SCP 22                              -66-                      01/18/85



