							2


	~  a State/tribal role in siting decisions, with disapproval rights
	   over the selection of a site within a State or Tribal lands, and

	~  entitlement to impact compensation.

Faithfully executed, NWPA promises to restore Federal credibility (and
therefore authority) to a level commensurate with long-standing Federal
responsibilities for waste management while simultaneously ensuring the
involvement of other interested parties.

Included in the Act under Title II are separate provisions for research and
development which include a Test and Evaluation Facility and request for an
assessment of the research and development needed to prepare the MRS proposal.
These R&D activites are discussed in the repository and MRS strategy sections.

Repository Strategy

NWPA mandates a comprehensive set of Federal activities designed to have the
nation's first permanent nuclear waste repository in operation at the turn
of the century.

Interwoven throughout the program is a fabric of checks and balances that
assure Federal accountability to the States, to the public, to the utilities,
and to affected Indian tribes--as well as to the Congress.  These institu-
tional requirements set forth the "rules of the game," the goal of which is
one or more acceptable permanent respositories.

Within these "rules," DOE must perform a technically irreproachable job
of site selection, repository construction, and actual acceptance, transporta-
tion and disposal of spent fuel and/or high-level waste.

Further, DOE intends to conduct an open and accountable decisionmaking process
throughout the life cycle of the program.  this process includes pursuing
thoughtful working relationships among individuals and institutions.  The
cornerstone of such an approach must be communication, i.e., consistent and
timely sharing of information and perspective.  These major principles define
DOE's long-term approach; short-term decisions will not be allowed to undercut
this strategy.

DOE expects to follow the process in the NWPA and the principles described
above with the objective of meeting the 1998 milestone for repository
operation to the extent practicable.

DOE will consider potentially acceptable sites for the first repository for
nomination for site characterization.  Consideration for nomination shall
proceed only if there is a likelihood that additional characterization will
not result in disqualification of a site.  DOE will nominate at least five
sites stressing the identification of sites in multiple geohydrologic settings.
DOE will then recommend three sites for characterization based on available
geotechnical, environmental and other relevant information.  After three sites
