					- 4 -


In conjunction with developing this level of detail, the
phased timing for release of supporting test descriptions and
procedures was discussed and clarified.  Any test descriptions
and procedures which were available at the time the SCP was
issued and which supported the investigation level discussion of
testing contained in SCP could be released for review with the
SCP.  Other test descriptions and procedures would be prepared as
required by test schedules to allow for review by DOE, NRC and
States prior to starting any test. Again, inherent in this agree-
ment is the understanding that detailed test descriptions and
procedures for all testing to be conducted in the exploratory
shaft must be available and reviewed before beginning construc-
tion of the shaft.  Presentation of such phased groupings of test
descriptions and procedures could be included in periodic
progress reports, but need not necessarily be tied to these
progress reports.  Figure 6 was developed to represent the
results of this dicussion.

Further definition of an overall issue resolution strategy was
held pending Tuesday's discussion of performance allocation.  To
initiate this discussion, Felton Bingham presented NNWSI's
approach for implementing performance allocation.  This approach
had previously been presented to DOE HQ staff and endorsed as a
effective method for implementing performance allocation.
NNWSI's presentation raised a number of concerns from the group,
such as concern over the difficulty in changing the performance
goals that might be set initially, and objections to the use of
such terms as "allocation," "goal," and "confidence", which have
standard statistical meanings.  On the subject of revising
initial performance allocations, the group was referred to the
Summary of NRC/DOE Meeting on Subsystem Performance Allocation,
signed and dated on September 27, 1986 (see Attachment C).
Because presentation of NNWSI's approach was more detailed than
that of SRPO or BWIP, detailed interactive discussions and com-
parisons were difficult and there were many questions on assump-
tions and process.  However, BWIP and SRPO both saw merit in the
NNWSI approach.  They believed that it was complimentary and
consistent with their evolving approaches.  They indicated that
they wished to review the approach critically and discuss with
NNWSI both details of the approach and the success that NNWSI was
having in implementing it.  Project representatives agreed in
concept with HQ that the site-specific performance allocation
strategies should be as consistent as possible.  They agreed to
work toward extensive commonality, but emphasized that it was
important not to over-constrain the performance allocation
approaches at this early stage of their development, as the
approaches were new and would be changing as they were refined.



