the weight gain rate that all the other material had. That is about all the
information.

DR. JOHNSON: What were the conditions for the autoclaving?

MS. STOKES: Now, that I don't know. One of our customers provided us
with a sample, a rod, and they said it had been autoclaved. I have tried for
the whole time that I have been working on the project to find out exactly what
did happen, what autoclave procedure was used. I don't know. I can't answer
that at this point. I don't know that I will ever be able to find out what
autoclaving procedure they used.

DR. JOHNSON: One thing that we have to keep in mind is that the material
that we are going to put into dry storage will have a film formed in the
reactor and that, that film could be up to several mils thick, so that we need
to keep that in mind as we extrapolate results such as this. We are really
dealing with a fairly thick oxide on the cladding that will be put into dry
storage. I will mention some more about that tomorrow.

Stan Kass did some work in this same temperature range. Actually, I think
it was about 225~C to 300~C in water. It would be very interesting to compare
your results and see--

MS. STOKES: Is that C-a-s-s?

DR. JOHNSON: Stan Kass, K-a-s-s. I can give you the reference to his
work. But he has published a rate law that would allow you to correlate your
results and then to see whether moist air is like--it turns out it is high
pressure. But Zircaloy has a very small pressure effect on oxidation. You may
find that the results are very similar.

DR. MARKOWITZ: I was going to speak to that same point. Ed Hillner, who
is a colleague of Kass's, published a few years ago,* I am afraid I can't give
you the reference, a review of this matter, in which he not only gave all the
correlations, the equations for oxidation both in steam and in water, but also
an equation for the occurrence of breakaway as a function of temperature and
time; that is, the transition between linear and cubic.

MS. STOKES: It depends on the alloy, too.

DR. MARKOWITZ: Yes, it differs for Zircaloy-4 and for Zircaloy-2. I 
think it would be very valuable to know whether your information correlates
with that.

DR. KOHLI: There is also a reference by Brian Cox. He wrote a review in 
1976.
*~[Note added in proof: The reference is E. Hillner, "An Overview of the
Corrosion of Zirconium-base Alloys," ASTM STP-633, pp. 211-235 (1977).]
146
