	Remember, this is the way we took account of the radiation phenomena and
these data do contain additional iodine.

	MR.  REISENWEAVER:  If I have a spent fuel rod.

	DR.  CHIN:  Yes.

	MR.  REISENWEAVER:  What curve do I use?

	DR.  CHIN:  If you have a spent fuel rod--

	DR.  JOHNSON:  I have an answer for him, I think.

	DR.  CHIN:  Okay, Burt.

	DR.  JOHNSON:  If you take that rod and heat it up above the annealing
temperature, it is spent fuel, it is irradiated.  You heat it up above the
annealing temperature.  You essentially have unirradiated cladding.  So maybe
that is the answer, that if you leave all the radiation damage in, you use the
irradiated curve.  If you anneal it out, you use the unirradiated curve.

	MR.  REISENWEAVER:  Does this heating occur after it comes out of the
reactor?

	DR.  JOHNSON:  It could occur during a cask evacuation, for example.

	MR.  REISENWEAVER:  But it is after it comes out of the reactor.

	MR.  WHEELER:  What is the temperature level for annealing, then, Burt?

	DR.  JOHNSON:  That depends on who you talk to and it depends a lot on how
the radiation was done and so forth.  But we regard that you could get a fair
amount of annealing at 400~C; some below 400~C, depending on how the radiation
damage was injected.  Certainly, the work that HEDL had done at 480~C to 570~C
suggests that they got almost complete annealing under those conditions.

	DR.  EINZIGER:  It is a function of time at temperature.  As Burt said,
when you are at 400~C, you start within hours to anneal it out.  If you wanted
to go down to 320~C or lower, you have to wait on the order of years before you
have annealed all of the irradiation out.  If you want to stay, say, at 320~C
and store fuel, you would go through a time period where the cladding would be
constantly changing its condition.  But eventually you would get to an annealed
condition where you wipe out the irradiation damage.  In-reactor, of course,
while you are down in the 350~C range or so, you are adding the damage at the
same time that you are annealing it out, so you are accumulating a steady-state
damage.

	MR.  REISENWEAVER:  So instead of irradiated and unirradiated, it would be
better if it were annealed vs. unannealed.  Is that what you are saying on
these charts?

	DR.  JOHNSON:  Well, the point is that there is a lot of unirradiated data.
It is not from cladding that was annealed, but it is an important data base


					255

