selected, including options for type of test, instrumentation,
data collection and recording, and alternative analytical
approaches.  Describe the advantages and limitations of the
various options; and

~  Describe the constraints that exist for the study, and explain
   how these constraints affect selection of test methods and
   analytical approaches.  Factors to be considered include:

	-  Potential impacts on the site from testing;

	-  Whether the study needs to simulate repository
	   conditions;

	-  Required accuracy and precision of parameters to be
	   measured with test instrumentation;

	-  Limits of analytical methods that will use the
	   information from the tests;

	-  Capability of analytical mothods to support the
	   study; and

	-  Time required versus time available to complete the
	   study.

III.	Description of Tests and Analyses:

   ~   Since studies are comprised of tests and analyses, provide for
       each type of test:

	-  Describe the general approach that will be used in
	   the test.  Describe key parameters that will be
	   measured in the test and the experimental conditions
	   under which the test will be conducted.  Indicate the
	   number of tests and their locations (e.g. spatial
	   location relative to the site, exploratory shaft
	   facility elements, repository layout, stratigraphic
	   units, depth, and test location);

	-  Summarize the test methods.  Reference any standard
	   procedures (e.g., ASTM, API) to be used.  If any of the
	   procedures to be used are not standard, or if a
	   standard procedure will be modified, summarize the
	   steps of the test, how it will be modified, and
	   reference the technical procedures that will be
	   followed during the test.  If procedures are not yet
	   available, indicate when they will be available.
	   Indicate the level of quality assurance and reference
	   the applicable specific QA requirements that will be
	   applied to the test;

	-  Specify the tolerance, accuracy, and precision
	   required in the test, where appropriate;



