separate analyses, 15 relatively distinct locations were identified (Figure 
2-13).  In this manner alternative locations for a repository were estab-
lished by the analyses.
 
    In Figure 2-14 the 15 locations are ranked according to the number of 
analyses for which all or most of the grid cells within each location rated 
high, medium, or low.  The objective and attribute subsets shown in Figure 
2-14 are convenient representations of the most important bases for ranking 
the potential sites; the figure also shows the relative weights assigned by 
the experts to each of these subsets.  To quantify the basis for the rank-
ings, the weights associated with each of the rating categories shown on 
Figure 2-14 were summed for each location for the 12 analyses that considered 
different combinations of objectives (Table 2-6).
 
    As is apparent from figures 2-11a, 2-12, and 2-14 and from Table 2-6, 
northern Yucca Mountain (location J, Figure 2-13) ranked highest, mainly 
because of high ratings for objectives related to long-term isolation; its 
ratings for near-term objectives, including the cost of constructing surface 
facilities and the environmental impacts of construction and operation, were 
lower than those of some of the other locations (Figure 2-14).  Three rock 
types at this location rated high enough to merit consideration as potential 
repository host rocks: the saturated and unsaturated Calico Hills unit, the 
unsaturated Topopah Spring Member, and the saturated Crater Flat Tuff (lower 
half of Figure 2-11b).
 
    Two other locations, northeastern Jackass Flats and Calico Hills-Upper 
Topopah Wash (locations L and N, respectively, Figure 2-13), also rated 
generally high.  High ratings at northeastern Jackass Flats are primarily due 
to favorable environmental, terrain, and hydrologic attributes.  However, 
this location is not underlain by any of the host rocks considered.  Less 
favorable tectonic attributes also detracted from its ratings.
 
    The third location, Calico Hills-Upper Topopah Wash, in contrast to 
northeastern Jackass Flats, rated low for geographical attributes and high 
only when host-rock attributes were considered.  Argillite and perhaps 
granite occur beneath Calico Hills and Upper Topopah Wash, though the granite 
may be too deep for repository use.  Argillite was rated first and granite 
second for both saturated and unsaturated conditions, and their presence 
strongly contributed to the high ratings at this location (compare maps from 
figures 2-11a and 2-12).  Hydrologic attributes at Calico Hills-Upper Topopah 
Wash also rated very high, whereas tectonic, terrain, and human-disturbance 
attributes generally rated low.  The other 12 locations rated significantly 
lower than those discussed above.
 
    Yucca Mountain emerged from the formal screening, in agreement with the 
less formal siting activities described in Section 2.2.3, as the location on 
or near the NTS that offers the most attributes considered to be favorable 
for a repository site.  The screening systematically compared only the rela-
tive merits of alternative locations considered in the study.  The site-
specific data needed for quantitative predictions of site suitability will be 
collected during site characterization if Yucca Mountain is recommended for 
characterization.
2-40
