information on the best techniques for restoring disturbed habitat in the 
vicinity of Yucca Mountain.  

Heat generated by the wastes would gradually increase the temperature of 
the ground at the surface.  The maximum increase is expected to be less than  
1~C (2~F) approximately 3,000 years after waste emplacement (Johnstone et 
al., 1984), and the heat would dissipate slowly thereafter.  The surface area 
that would be affected by the 1~C isotherm would probably be generally 
circular and will encompass approximately 800 hectares (2,000 acres), which 
includes the areal extent of the repository.  The ecological consequences of 
increasing the surface and near-surface temperatures over the repository 
cannot be quantified with the information currently available.  However, 
significant ecological impacts would not be expected because of the 
relatively small temperature increase and size of the affected area.

5.2.5 AIR QUALITY

     The development of Yucca Mountain as a repository would result in emis-
sions of several substances into the atmosphere.  This section discusses the 
applicable regulations as well as the impacts associated with emissions from 
construction, operations, and subsequent decommissioning of the repository 
and the relationship of these impacts to applicable regulations.  Only 
nonradiological emissions are considered in this section.  Section 5.2.9 
discusses the potential for radiological emissions.  

5.2.5.1 Ambient air-quality regulations

     Both the State of Nevada and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) have promulgated regulations designed to protect the air quality of 
Nevada; the regulations are expressed as ambient air-quality standards.  The 
standards that apply to the development of Yucca Mountain are outlined on 
Table 5-10.  Before construction can begin, the State of Nevada may require a 
registration certificate that outlines limits on, and controls of, the emis-
sions from facilities.  After operations begin, an operating permit is 
required to verify that the source is operating within the limits of its 
registration certificate.     

     Particulate emissions are expected to be of the most concern in  develop-
ment of Yucca Mountain as a repository.  The State of Nevada's regulatory 
intent concerning fugitive particulate emissions is that "no person shall 
cause or permit the handling, transporting, or storing of any material in a 
manner which allows, or may allow, controllable particulate matter to become 
airborne" (State of Nevada, 1983).  Compliance with this mandate would be 
incorporated into the registration certificate.  However, because of the 
preliminary stage of the repository concept at Yucca Mountain, only uncon-
trolled or minimally controlled (i.e., worst-case) particulate emissions have 
been assumed in this analyses.

     In addition to these regulatory requirements, the project could be 
subject to review under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
5-40
