	Conservative assumptions were used in all of the computer analyses
reported here.  The characteristics of fractures are difficult to model; for
these analyses the fractures were modeled as planar, ubiquitous, and non-
intersecting.  Models are being developed to better understand the influence
of fractures.  The current models also rely on sequential, rather than fully
coupled, calculations.  Often, averaged properties were used in the evalua-
tions.  Whenever possible, average and bounding properties were determined by
statistical analysis.

	Some geologic uncertainty arises because the data are derived from
surface mapping and a limited number of boreholes.  Nevertheless, the three-
dimensional geologic model of Yucca Mountain is reasonably complete (Nimick
and Williams, 1984).  The material properties of the stratigraphic units are
determined from cores typically 5 centimeters (2 inches) or less in diameter.
Because the sample size is small, the known properties are mainly limited to
those of the matrix rather than the rock mass.  Also because of the small
sample size, discontinuities present in the rock mass are not necessarily
included in the sample.  Some of the thermal and mechanical matrix properties
are relatively well known because a large number of samples have been
measured.  In these instances, the data have been statistically analyzed to
yield average values and standard deviations.

	Quantitative and qualitative analyses are used in the discussion of the
favorable and potentially adverse conditions.  The quantitative analyses used
computer models to predict the thermal and thermomechanical behavior of the
rock units.  Qualitative and semiquantitative analyses were used to predict
mineralogical responses to the heat emitted by the waste decay, the thickness
and lateral extent of the host rock, and the relation of rock characteristics
to engineering requirements.

	The uncertainty introduced by the computer models is poorly known at
present.  Evaluations are under way to investigate this uncertainty by com-
paring the results of different models solving the same problem.  The models
are also being used to predict and compare the results of specific experi-
ments and field tests.

	The preliminary assessment of possible halide concentrations in the
repository environment are based on incomplete investigations that will be
continued during site characterization, as will the early investigations of
radiation-related phenomena.



6.3.1.3.3	Favorable conditions

	(1)  A host rock that is sufficiently thick and laterally extensive
	to allow significant flexibility in selecting the depth, configura-
	tion, and location of the underground facility to ensure isolation.

Evaluation

	Four potential emplacement horizons in Yucca Mountain have been evaluated
(Johnstone et al., 1984), and the unsaturated densely welded devitrified
portion of the Topopah Spring Member has been selected as the preferred


				6-211
