	The host rock at the Hanford site consists of basalt and a number of
sorptive secondary minerals (e.g., clays, zeolites).  Laboratory tests suggest
that repository conditions may result in the formation of a mineral assemblage
similar to the secondary minerals formed naturally in basalt as a result of
hydrothermal alteration.  Although the hydrothermal conditions near the
repository could adversely affect the sorptive capacity of some of these
minerals, there is abundant evidence that hydrothermal conditions could alter
the volcanic materials to more sorptive materials (e.g., clays and zeolites).
In general, the effects of the repository on rock strength are expected to be
negligible.

	At the Richton site, the mineral assemblage consists mainly of halite
with some anhydrite.  Because of the stability of the minerals at this site,
it is expected that no geochemical alteration or reduction in rock strength
would affect the transport of radionuclides.

	The mineral assemblage in the host rock of the Yucca Mountain site
consists of 98 percent quartz, feldspar, and cristobalite, with small amounts
of secondary clays and zeolites.  The sorptive capacity of the host rock is
likely to be slightly reduced by the dehydration of clays and zeolites in the
disturbed zone and remain unaffected in the surrounding rocks.  Only very
small amounts of volcanic glass are likely to be present.  Rock strength is
not expected to be affected by the geochemical conditions in the repository.

Summary of comparative evaluations

	Hanford and Yucca Mountain are the most favorable sites for the
geochemistry guideline.  These two sites are expected to have the most
favorable geochemical conditions with respect to the waste package and
radionuclide retardation.  The basalt at Hanford should respond favorably to
geochemical conditions in the repository by creating additional sorptive
capacity.  Hanford also has more favorable redox conditions.  Yucca Mountain
has unsaturated conditions as well as the additional radionuclide-retardation
effects of matrix diffusion.

	The Davis Canyon, the Deaf Smith, and the Richton sites are favorable for
all major considerations and are essentially equivalent with respect to the
geochemistry guideline.  They are less favorable than the nonsalt sites
because the sorptive capacity of salt is very limited and the brines at these
three sites could reduce the lifetime of the waste package.  Moreover, the
geochemical conditions in the salt sites are not expected to enhance the
retardation of radionuclides through the alteration of the host rock to the
degree that is expected at Hanford.  The amount of brine, however, will
probably be small, and the transport of radionuclides by this brine is likely
to be quite limited.  Therefore retardation due to geochemical effects may be
of limited importance.


				7-23
