the people living near the site will be most significantly affected, but they 
also recognize that the hazards and impacts of transporting wastes are 
national in scope.  Because the DOE's main goal in transportation is safety, 
and the guidelines emphasize the role of safety, transportation safety is the 
most important consideration in evaluating the sites. 
  
   The transportation of radioactive materials during the past 40 years has 
been accomplished with an exemplary record of safety.  Models that are used to 
estimate the radiological risks of transportation tend to generate extremely 
low expected-risk values for the public because they rely on historical data.  
When relative terms like "high" or "moderate" are used in this evaluation, 
they must be considered in the context of the low overall radiological risk 
from transportation.  The nonradiological risk is calculated under the 
assumption that the probability of accidents for radioactive-waste shipments 
can be represented by accident statistics for general commerce.  The DOE 
believes that these accident statistics will overestimate the actual number of 
deaths and injuries.  Other factors being equal, the site with the smallest 
radiological hazard will also have the smallest nonradiological hazard. 
  
   Since the principal contributing factor in determining risk is the 
distance traveled, a better site for this consideration is one that is close 
to the sources of spent fuel and high-level waste.  Other contributing factors 
that increase the favorability of sites are access and local routes that avoid 
population centers, flat local terrain with good visibility, and regional 
weather conditions that rarely cause hazardous road conditions.  It should be 
noted that, regarding weather conditions, the DOE needs additional information 
before determining the comparative favorability of the sites.  In contrast, 
less favorable sites are distant from waste sources, must be reached by routes 
that pass through population centers or rugged terrain, and are located in 
regions where weather conditions often cause hazardous road conditions.  A 
summary of transportation risk and cost calculations is presented in Table 
7-16; the reader is referred to Appendix A for more-extensive analytical 
results.  Table 7-17 presents the factors used to evaluate disruptions of the 
environment and the cost of infrastructure.  A summary of the evaluation for 
each site follows. 
  
   Davis Canyon is centrally located in the large region defined by the five 
nominated sites, but it is more difficult to reach because of its remote and 
rugged setting.  Access from existing highways and railroads is extremely 
difficult, and there is a potential for landslides that could interrupt or 
jeopardize shipments.  A long stretch of noninterstate highway must be 
traversed before reaching the site.  From a national perspective, the relative 
risk of transporting to Davis Canyon is moderate to high, but that risk has to 
be considered along with the potential hazards near the site that could 
further reduce the overall level of safety.  However, the added risk 
associated with hazardous local access to the site is somewhat offset by the 
remoteness of the site and the low population density in the area. 

     The Deaf Smith site is convenient to major national highways.  The 
distance from sources of spent fuel is low to moderate, and, as shown in Table 
7-16, the level of relative safety is therefore moderate to high.  The terrain 
surrounding the site is generally flat and poses no safety hazard.  The 
population density around the site is low to moderate. 
7-95
