Consultation and cooperation between the DOE and States is a dynamic
process; it will not be limited to activities specified in the
consultation-and-cooperation agreements. Further information about the
consultation-and-cooperation process can be found in Chapter 4 of Part I of
Volume I and in Chapter 3 of Part II in Volume I of the Mission Plan (DOE,
1985a).

Issue

One party recommended that the DOE conclude consultation-and-cooperation 
agreements with States to provide a formal structure for information and
comment.

Response

To ensure that States are actively involved in the program, a formal
consultation-and-cooperation process will be established through the written
agreements provided for in Section 117(c) of the Act. High priority has been
placed on concluding these agreements promptly. No formal
consultation-and-cooperation agreements have yet been signed with any State,
although negotiations have been initiated with the State of Washington.

In the absence of a consultation-and-cooperation agreement, the DOE will
continue to provide both information and opportunities for comment.

Issue

Some commenters felt that the States should have been part of the EA
process from the beginning and that the EAs could have benefitted from their
involvement.

Response

The States with potentially acceptable sites were asked to participate
very early in the EA process, starting with the scoping hearings held early in
1983. Subsequently, the DOE shared various drefts of the EAs with these
States. The EAs did indeed benefit from the careful reviews performed by the
States, and the DOE is grateful for their thoughtful comments.

Issue

Some States expressed concerns about the DOE's plans for compliance with
State regulations in the siting process.

Response

The DOE intends to comply with the substance of any applicable State and
local regulations that are consistent with its responsibilities under the Act.

The applicable regulations will be identified in consultation with the
affected States and local governments. One of the objectives of the
consultation process (see Section C.2.1.2) will be to identify which State or
local regulations are applicable to a particular siting, construction, or
operation activity and are consistent with the DOE's responsibilities under
C.2-11
