did include this condition (see Sections C.3.4.1.2 and C.5.1 for comments on
geohydrology).  In addition, the comparative evaluation included in the
disqualifying condition for the preclosure guideline on socioeconomic impacts
pertains to significant effects on the quantity or the quality of water from
major water supplies (see Sections C.3.4.2.2 and C.7.4).

Issue

	One commenter contended that the EA for the basalt (Hanford) site should
acknowledge the presence of potentially adverse conditions regarding (1)
projected major conflicts with environmental requirements and (2) significant
adverse environmental impacts that cannot be avoided or mitigated.  This
contention was based on claims of uncontained hazardous materials and
controversy over the discharges of radioactive materials from DOE facilities
at Hanford.

Response

	The guideline on environmental quality is concerned with significant
adverse environmental impacts at the repository site.  It does not address
the effects of unrelated activities.

Issue

	One commenter stated that the DOE has not done the work to determine
whether or not significant Yakima Indian cultural or religious resources would
be adversely affected, especially in light of previous effects on Gable
Mountain.  He felt that the fifth potentially adverse condition should be
considered present at the Hanford site.

Response

	Parts of Gable Mountain have been examined by a reconaissance-level study
that identified Gable Mountain and Gable Butte as having religious
significance to local Indian groups.  The DOE maintains that site
characterization and repository development can be performed at the Hanford
site without exerting any significant adverse effects on any significant
Native American religious or cultural resources.

Issue

	One person felt that the ranking of the Richton site should be lowered
because environmental impacts would be experienced by the persons living at
the site.

Response

	The nearness of the town of Richton has been given due consideration in
the evaluation of that site against the guideline on population density and
distribution (see Sections C.3.4.2.1 and C.6.1 for comments on that guideline).
To consider the population of Richton in evaluations against the guideline on
environmental quality would result in double counting.


				C.3-59

