Issue

	Some parties suggested that the guidelines should establish procedures
for determining the end point of site characterization.

Response

	The end point of site characterization will be established by the
site-characterization plans, which will describe in detail the tests to be
performed, the data that are needed, and what the data will be used for.  Each
plan will be specific to a particular site and will be based on the data and
analyses needed to resolve outstanding issues about the suitability of the
site.  Because the end of site characterization depends on site-specific
conditions, it cannot be defined by general siting guidelines.  As already
mentioned, these plans will be reviewed by the NRC, the affected States and
Indian Tribes, and the public through a formal hearing process.  The data
collected during site characterization will be reported to the NRC every 6
months in progress reports that will also discuss any needed changes in the
plans for testing.  After site characterization is completed, the NRC may
request the DOE to collect more data for the confirmation of the results of
site characterization.

Issue

	One commenter suggested that the potential impact on system performance
by discrete hydraulic features (joints, faults, fractures, and dissolution
conduits) be incorporated into the DOE guidelines and the EAs.

Response

	The impact on system performance of discrete hydraulic features is not
included in the guidelines because the guidelines must be general enough to
cover all types of host rock.  The impacts of such features, if they are
present, will be assessed during site characterization.



C.3.1.1.4	Comments on particular guidelines

Issue

	The guideline concerning the 10,000-year travel time from the repository
to the accessible environment is not appropriate for radioactive waste that
will be subject to dispersive and diffusive mixing processes.

Response

	A 10,000-year travel time to the accessible environment is a favorable
condition in the postclosure guidelines on geohydrology; it was derived from
the NRC's criteria in 10 CFR Part 60.  The qualifying condition for
geohydrology says that the present and expected setting of a site shall be
compatible with waste isolation, taking into account the characteristics of,
and the processes operating within, the geologic setting.


				C.3-7
