employment estimates. Three of the commenters stated that the DOE conclusion
that tax revenues would rise cannot be deduced from information presented in
the EA. Other criticisms were that the DOE is forced to include possible
mitigation to achieve net project-induced revenues and improvements in
community services, and that the Nevada tax base is extremely narrow, so that
higher wage earnings are unlikely to lead to large revenue increases.

Response

While it is true that predictions of impacts on communities are sensi-
tive to employment assumptions, the DOE believes that the direct and indirect
employment estimates presented in Section 5.1.5 and elsewhere in the final EA
are realistic, although preliminary. It is true that tax effects were not
quantified in the EA. It is also true, however, that tax revenues are
certain to rise as a result of wage payments to repository workers who are
inmigrants, and as a result of repository-related purchase of goods and
services in the bicounty area. Thus, the conclusion that tax revenues will
rise can be deduced from information in the EA.

Favorable condition 3 requires increases in government revenue in the
affected area, but it does not require a positive net fiscal balance or that
the increases be large. Thus, in light of the above discussion, the
favorable condition is met with respect to local government revenue. The EA
has been revised to clarify this point. The EA has also been revised to
delete the dependence upon mitigation measures to achieve improved community
services.

Issue: Favorable condition 4

The DOE received four comments on favorable condition 4, "No substantial
disruption of primary sectors of the economy of the affected area." Two of
the commenters questioned the conclusion by the DOE that the repository
project would not significantly disrupt tourism. Another commenter suggested
that the EA ignores potential negative effects on the State's mining sector
that could occur if fewer workers than are needed inmigrate to the bicounty
area. The commenter suggests this could lead to a drain of workers from
productive mining activities in other areas of the State, because of
increased wages for repository mining workers. The final comment suggests
that DOE findings are based upon the most easily passed tests of nonsignif-
icance, that is, evaluation of the ability of the bicounty area to absorb
socioeconomic impacts.

Response

The reasoning behind the DOE conclusion that the repository project
would not significantly disrupt tourism is presented in sections 5.4.1.6 and
6.2.1.7.3 of the final EA. It is true that the EA does not address all of
the distributional effects which would be associated with the potential
increases in mining wages noted in Section 5.4.1.1 of the final EA. However,
the evaluation of favorable condition 4 concerns the entire mining sector of
the bicounty area (not the entire State), where overall effect of mining
activity in the bicounty area would be positive. Regarding "... most easily
passed tests of nonsignificance ..." the DOE believes that the bicounty area
C.7-36
