Nevada, a fairly comprehensive discussion of the extensive literature on
boom-bust communities in the West might be very appropriate in section
3.6.4.2.1 of the EA.

Response. A comprehensive review of the boom-bust literature was not
considered appropriate for the EA because (1) the boom-bust literature, which
has been undergoing revision (see Murdock et al., 1985; and Wilkinson et al.,
1982), is not relevant for the entire affected area and (2) a focus on boom-
bust literature presupposes that the repository would also cause boom-bust
conditions, which is by no means certain given the planning and mitigation
procedures provided in the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA, 1983).
Nevertheless, several references were identified in the draft EA so that the
reader could pursue additional material if desired. An additional reference
(Murdock et al., 1985) has been included in the final EA. Together, the
references cited in Section 3.6.4.1 of the final EA provide a comprehensive
overview of the early boom-bust literature and more recent thinking in the
field.

Community-specific examination of rural culture. One commenter felt
that to be useful, an examination of the characteristics of rural culture
should be community-specific, so that the key elements of unique cultural
manifestations in each community and the potential for repository impacts can 
be examined.

Response. While it is true that it would be more meaningful to address
community-specific cultural characteristics, insufficient information was
available from published sources during EA preparation to provide the com-
munity specificity, detail, and depth called for by this comment. This kind
of detailed data will be sought during studies undertaken if the Yucca
Mountain site is approved for site characterization.

Issue: Attitudes and perceptions

The two topics in this issue concern the incomplete survey data in
Section 3.6.4.4 of the draft EA and the need to study attitudes towards the
repository on a statewide basis.

Incomplete survey data. One commenter stated that according to the
survey cited in Section 3.6.4.4 of the draft EA, a majority of those surveyed
opposed the idea of locating a repository "... on the Test Site in southern
Nevada ..." and 6 percent were undecided. Since the 6-percent figure is
known for those undecided, it was asked why the figure for those opposed was
not expressed in terms of a percentage. The commenter also asked whether
respondent answers would have been even less favorable if they had known that
only part of the proposed repository site is actually on the Nevada Test site
(NTS).
C.4-48
