position of the disturbed zone is 50 meters (164 feet) below the centerline
of the repository, and it is thought to be unlikely that repository-induced
changes beyond these distances could significantly affect repository
performance.  In the calculations of travel time and in computer simulations
of travel times, the possibility for rapid water velocities during fracture
flow is explicitly considered.  On the question of additive uncertainties,
the final EA discussions of travel time clearly describe uncertainties in the
calculations.  However, it should be noted that extreme application of this
philosophy can lead to totally unrealistic predictions that are far removed
from the expected conditions and processes.

	Heat effects on rock properties that might influence postclosure travel
times will be studied during site characterization through performance
assessment scenario analysis.  The disqualifier for geohydrology is for
pre-emplacement travel time and heat is not appropriately considered for that
calculation.

	Isotope ages of ground-water.  Commenters questioned the absence of data
from established isotope techniques for dating water and determining travel
times.  It was suggested that tritium levels could be used to estimate the
period of time that water had been out of contact with the atmosphere.  Using
this approach, one commenter suggested that several wells in Fortymile Wash
may contain water components as young as 30 years old.  It was further
suggested that carbon-14 ages may indicate rapid ground-water movement or
substantial recharge through Yucca Mountain.  One commenter suggested that
travel velocities in fractures within the Rainier Mesa vadose zone have been
estimated at meters per day, and further stated that the presence of
10,000-year-old ground waters at Yucca Mountain indicates that either the
carbon-14 ages are wrong or the travel-time estimates are off by about a
factor of 2.  Another commenter combined a question of ground-water age
estimates with a statement that no evidence was offered to support the
conservatism of placing the disturbed zone at the base of the Topopah Spring
welded unit.

	Response.  Isotope ages for ground water are reported by Claassen
(1983); Benson et al. (1983); and Waddell et al. (1984).  Tritium data
mentioned in the comments may indicate a "soil-water" contribution, although
obtaining uncontaminated samples has been difficult in the past and results
are not definitive.  Claassen (1983) suggests that a major recharge event
between 9,000 and 17,000 years ago can be detected by use of carbon-14 ages.
The comment regarding the possibility of rapid recharge at Yucca Mountain
does not consider the fact that a 10,000-year-old carbon-14 age represents a
minimum age for the water.  The possibility of mixing of water of different
ages, and of the occurrence of local recharge events beneath intermittent
streams, makes the isotope age-dating technique an inexact science.  Use of
corrected carbon-14 ages must contain specification of the correction method
used, because no unique solution is possible.  A lack of agreement between
hydraulically computed velocities and geochemically computed velocities is
not surprising.  The assumptions are different, and it may be erroneous to
assume that water sampled down the hydraulic gradient from another sampling
locality is necessarily derived solely from the up-gradient sample.  As a
result 10,000-year-old water at Well J-13 and a calculated 20,000-year travel
time from the repository to the water table are not necessarily contra-
dictory.


				C.5-7

