6
These NRC staff comments on the final EA's are part of the continuing
interface between the staffs of the DOE and NRC which will lead to early
identification of potential licensing issues. In the short term our comments
should assist the DOE in preparing high quality SCP's. In its concurrence
action on the siting guidelines, the Commission found that the guidelines
are consistent with the requirements of its own regulations on geologic
repositories (10 CFR Part 60). Therefore, while the staff has not identified
how its comments relate to the specific requirements of 10 CFR Part 60, the
NRC staff considers that they serve to identify open items which are relevant
to potential licensing of each site based on information currently available
and which will need to be resolved during site characterization. Therefore,
we believe that the opportunity afforded by the final EA's for early
interaction between NRC and DOE will be beneficial to the progress of the
repository program.

The objectives of the NRC staff review are as follows:

1. Identify and document any major concerns with DOE's responses to the
   NRC major comments on the draft EA's and certain detailed comments
   (i.e. those referenced by major comments and other detailed comments
   that now appear to warrant the same attention as the major comments
   based on the ongoing review of DOE's program). In other words
   identify residual major concerns not adequately addressed by DOE.

2. Become aware of as well as identify and document any major concerns
   with new data and information resulting from revisions/additions to
   the draft EA's by DOE.

3. Identify and document any major concerns with changes to the findings
   and supporting material in the final EA's.

4. Identify and document major concerns with the technical evaluations in
   Chapter 7, the Methodology Document, and the Recommendation Document
   including inconsistencies in use of data, interpretations, etc.,
   between Chapter 7, the Methodology Document, the Recommendation
   Document and supporting final EA chapters. This does not include a
   review of the evaluation methodology or the ranking of the sites.

5. Identify and document any inconsistencies between the evaluation
   methodology in Chapter 7, the Methodology Document, and the Recommendation
   Document and the siting guidelines as concurred in by the Commission
   (including whether or not the evaluation methodology is an interpretation
   of the guidelines).

The final EA review is not a review like that of the draft EA; it is not a
comprehensive and detailed review effort to identify every concern and document
these concerns as major and detailed comments. The final EA review, as
