2. The time-dependent function representing the process may be approxi-
   mated by an analytical expression involving a few deterministic
   functions of time and a few scalar random variables.
For example, the spatially averaged percolation flux at the level of the
repository might be most simply approximated by
where q0 is a random variable representing the spatially averaged percolation
flux at closure time (t = 0), and ~ is a random variable representing the
rate of change of the spatially averaged flux owing to future climatic
changes. Other approximations might be justified, depending upon expert
judgments in the areas of future climatology and unsaturated-zone hydrology.

The U.S. Department of Energy approach to constructing the complementary
cumulative distribution function

In calculating the CCDF, the DOE intends to take into account all those
natural processes and events that are sufficiently credible to warrant
consideration. Generally, categories of natural processes and events that
can be shown to have a likelihood of less than one chance in 10,000 of
occurring in the first 10,000 yr after permanent closure would not be taken
into account in CCDF. Furthermore, categories of natural processes and
events whose contribution to the overall probability distribution can other-
wise be shown to be insignificant would not be included in the detailed
assessments. Likewise, any particular combinations of categories of natural
processes and events that meet either of these two criteria would not be 
incorporated into the CCDF. That is, particular scenario classes involving a
sequence of categories of events or processes that, in combination, can be
shown to have a probability of occurrence in the 10,000-yr period following
permanent closure of less than one chance in 10,000 or that otherwise can be
shown to make a negligible contribution to the overall probability
distribution would not be evaluated in detail.

Impacts of processes and events initiated by human activities will also
be considered in the system performance assessments with regard to this
issue. Repository construction and waste emplacement, as they affect the
conditions in the geologic repository, will be taken into account in the
evaluating of the CCDF for normalized releases. The treatment of such events
and processes will follow an approach similar to that used for the natural
processes and events. To address the effects of human activities (such as
direct intrusion), the DOE will (1) evaluate the effects of potentially
adverse human activities, such as those identified in the examination of the
potentially adverse conditions of 10 CFR 60.122; (2) develop scenario classes
of categories of processes and events that are initiated by human activities
and that result in potentially significant impacts on normalized releases;
and (3) estimate relative probabilities and consequences for these scenarios,
taking into account the factors and the assumptions given previously in the
regulatory basis for this issue. The scenarios and scenario classes associ-
ated with human activities are often highly speculative and often do not
involve significant impacts on the variables important to waste isolation.
8.3.5.13-23
