	Figure 8.3.5.16-1 shows the phases of the DOE's performance confirmation
program relative to the stages of the overall repository program.  The DOE's
performance confirmation program, as discussed earlier, is divided into base-
line and confirmation phases, with the submittal of the license application
serving as a convenient demarcation between phases.  Before the license
application, site characterization testing provides for baseline data on site
conditions important to repository design and performance, monitoring of
changes in those conditions as a result of site characterization, predictions
of changes in those conditions as a result of construction and operation, and
predictions of repository performance after closure.

	With the submittal of the license application, the DOE begins the formal
licensing process with the NRC.  The license application will present the
performance assessments intended to show that repository performance will
satisfy the regulatory postclosure performance objectives and will also
present the data on site conditions upon which the repository design and
performance assessments are based.  Further data gathering activities after
the application is submitted are intended to be confirmatory or for other
purposes, such as design optimization.

	A subset of the testing conducted during site characterization to
support the resolution of the performance and design issues in the license
application will provide the baseline data needed to meet the requirements of
10 CFR 60.140(d) (2), (3).  This includes baseline data on the parameters
important to design and performance, as well as data on natural processes
that may be changed by site characterization, construction, and operational
activities.  All the activities presently required to obtain this baseline
information are included in the site characterization program, and the
information needed is identified in two performance allocation tables.  If,
based on data and other information gathered during site characterization,
the need for additional baseline information is identified, the baseline
phase of the performance confirmation program will be appropriately expanded
or otherwise modified.

	Some of the site charact~rization activities that also meet requirements
of 10 CFR 60.140(d) (2) and (3) for performance confirmation during the base-
line phase will be continued past the license application submittal date, if
continuation of these activities would produce useful data of a confirmatory
nature.  Such activities fall into two general categories: (1) long-term
monitoring of natural processes, events, or site conditions (e.g., seismic
monitoring and monitoring of unsaturated zone hydrologic parameters) and
(2) long-duration in situ testing to characterize processes and evaluate
conceptual models (e.g., in situ testing of flow processes in the unsaturated
zone).  These activities are also consistent with and would support the
requirements of 10 CFR 60.141 for confirmation of geotechnical and design
parameters during construction and operation.  Data collected from such
activities during characterization would be used in licensing assessments.

	Tables 8.3.5.16-1 and -2 list the testing and monitoring activities in
each of the above categories that have been te~~~~tively identified.  Included
in the tables are the test titles, locations, purposes, value for performance
or design confirmation, approximate dates, and the SCP section that provides


					8.3.5.16-6
