8.3.1.15.1.7.2 Activity: Rock-mass response experiment
Objectives
The objective of this activity is to evaluate the mechanical behavior of
the rock mass or its components. Experiments will be performed to obtain
information with regards to the mechanical response of single joints and
multiply jointed volumes of rock. It is envisaged that this experiment will
be conducted in several areas that are representative of the range of condi-
tions encountered in the exploratory shaft facility (ESF). The information
will be used to evaluate potential scale effects between laboratory and in
situ conditions, to provide data to evaluate empirical design criteria, and
to provide data to evaluate and validate jointed-rock models.
Parameters
The following parameters will be obtained during this experiment: joint
characteristics (including joint shear strength, joint wall compressive
strength, and joint roughness coefficient), joint normal and joint shear
deformation response, and rock mass deformation modulus.

Description

Rock-mass response experiments will be conducted in several areas of the
ESF. These areas have not yet been determined, but they will be chosen to be
representative of the range of geologic conditions expected in the reposi-
tory. Joint shear response will be measured on individual joints of a size
of 70 by 70 cm as suggested in the International Society of Rock Mechanics
Suggested Methods (ISRM, 1981). The shear response experiments will provide
data on the in situ joint shear strength as well as the normal and shear
displacement response on in situ joints. This information will be used to
evaluate jointed-rock models. The rock-mass response portion of this experi-
ment will measure the uniaxial load-bearing capacity of large blocks (up to 1
by 1 by 2 m) of rock that include multiple joints. This will provide data on
the behavior of multiple joints to compressive loads and will be used to
evaluate jointed-rock models and to evaluate empirical rock-mass strength
relationships such as those developed by Hoek and Brown (1980). The rock-
mass response portion of this experiment will be similar to other large-scale
in situ compression tests (Jahns, 1966; Bieniawski, 1968; Pratt et al., 1972;
Wagner, 1975). The block of rock will be cut using hydraulic chain saws
(Zimmerman et al., 1987) and the compressive loads will be applied through
high-pressure flatjacks being developed at Sandia National Laboratories.

Methods and technical procedures

The methods and technical procedures for Activity 8.3.1.15.1.7.2 are
given in the following table.
8.3.1.15-68
