General Description of Lake Hefner

		by G. Earl Harbeck, Jr.*


BASIS FOR CHOICE
OF LAKE HEFNER


	The selection of a reservoir or lake suitable for
a comprehensive study of the exchange of energy
between the atmosphere and a water surface is not
a simple matter. It was planned to determine evap-
oration by three methods: (1) water budget, (2) en-
ergy budget, and (3) mass transfer. Since the water
budget was to be the control for evaluating the other
two methods, it was imperative that the water budget
be accurate. This was the paramount consideration
in selecting the lake (Harbeck et al., 1951).
	The energy-budget and mass-transfer methods
also imposed restrictions on the choice of the lake.
It was desired, for example, to minimize the effects
of mechanically induced turbulence on the wind struc-
ture, and for that reason canyon reservoirs were
deemed unsatisfactory. A deep lake was desired to
avoid the problem connected with the penetration of
solar radiation to the lake bottom.
	The requirements established for the lake were
as follows, in order of importance:


	1. Water Budget

	a. The error in the monthly difference between
total inflow and outflow, including both surface and
subsurface flows, and allowing for changes in storage
(including bank storage), must be less than 5 per cent
of the best existing estimate of the mean monthly
evaporation loss. Inflow and outflow preferably should
be as small as possible during the period of high
evaporation.
	b. Infrequent short periods of storm inflow, dur-
ing which the water budget cannot be determined
with the accuracy required under 1a, can be tolerated.
	c. Subsurface inflow and outflow must be neg-
ligible compared with evaporation, unless it is known
that they can be measured accurately.
	d. Substantial bank storage is undesirable.
	e. Transpiration losses must be small.
	f. An accurate area-capacity curve is needed,
but if not available, a hydrographic survey can
be made.


	2. Size

	a. The minimum desirable dimensions are 3 miles
in width and 5 miles in length, or the area should not
be less than 10 square miles if the water body is
nearly circular or if the longer dimension is in the
direction of the prevailing summer winds.
	b. The maximum desirable size is 50 square
miles if the lake is nearly circular, and otherwise 30
square miles.


	3. Shape

	a. A circular shape is ideal. A very irregular
shore line is unsatisfactory; an irregular shore line
downwind is not so objectionable as one upwind.
A long, narrow lake is not satisfactory.
	b. An unobstructed expanse of water (few or no
islands) extending 5 miles in the direction of the pre-
vailing summer winds is desirable.


	4. Depth

	a. At least 80 per cent of the lake should be
more than 5 feet deep (and preferably more than 10
feet). A deep lake is desirable.
	b. Playa lakes should be considered if they
meet all requirements except depth.


	5. Topographic Setting

	a. Low relief is preferable; lakes in canyons are
not satisfactory.
	b. The drainage area preferably should be small.


	6. Location and Climate

	a. An arid region is preferable.
	b. There should be fairly long periods of no
rainfall during the season of high evaporation, but
infrequent storms are not objectionable.
	c. It is preferable, but not essential, that the
lake remain unfrozen in the winter.
	The search for a lake suitable for the study has
already been discussed (Harbeck et al., 1951). The
Geological Survey district offices in the western states
and the Bureau of Reclamation regional offices were
furnished copies of the specifications and were asked
for recommendations. Their comments were also solic-
ited on the suitability of lakes that appeared, on the
maps available, to approach the desired size and


	* Hydraulic Engineer, Water Resources Division, U.S.
Geological Survey.


302520 O - 54 - 2       5
