drainage crossing instead of culverts or low trestles since
these other designs would necessitate extensive grades on
each side of the wash on which waste shipments (both rail
and truck) would have to travel, and would inhibit debris
flow in the wash during flooding. Any savings realized in
construction for these other designs would be offset by
operating and maintenance expenses as well as compromised
safety.

Drawings SK-211-C-019, 020, and 021 indicate alternative
alignments for crossing Fortymile Wash, prior to entering
the site. It was found the alternative alignments which
are routed around the end of the defined wash are less cost
effective than the proposed alignment. The cost for the
substantial length of additional track, plus drainage
structures designed for the discharge from Fortymile Wash,
was greater than the cost of providing the bridge described
above.

2.3 Alternatives for Further Study
As mentioned above, the final access route selected will
depend, in part, on the agreed upon nationwide rail
transportation routes for shipment of the waste. It is
recommended that the potential nationwide routes be
thoroughly studied to estimate transportation costs,
evaluate logistics of transporting the cask cars, and
estimate time of travel and number of transfers. Also, as
mentioned in Section 4.3, further study is required on the
type of operation on the proposed access route, i.e.
operated by the government, public railroad carrier or
private enterprise.

Further study on whether or not the access railroad may be
used for services and shipments, other than waste
shipments, may be warranted. For the operating scenario
presented in Section 4.3, it was assumed that general
merchandise cars would be included in the train. With
Alternative 1, a spur is provided to Mercury; however, the
need for this should be evaluated further prior to
construction.

With regard to the Alternative 1 route, it is suggested the
connection with the Union Pacific main line be studied in
more detail. It is understood that plans are underway to
relocate the Las Vegas main switchyard to the east of the
city limits. The possibility of utlizing the main
switchyard as a transfer point rather than Dike siding
could be considered. Also, the connection with Dike siding
results in the access route crossing through a Nellis AFB
small arms range (see Dwg SK-211-C-011), unless the access
route follows a less feasible alignment which would
0610Y:11/20/84:0039Y   DOCUMENT NO. R211C100, Rev. 0    Sheet 6 of 17
H-192
